10.2307/3668892|The species is a dynamic system. Understanding of the species must include understanding of the hereditary variability and of the whole interrelations of the system with its environment. Conventional systematics, with the primary aim of classification, deals with this system only in a casual and fragmentary way. There is urgent need, therefore, for studies of species as living systems, taking into account all of their attributes.
10.2307/3668893|A taxonomic survey was made of winter (Dec. 21-March 20) invertebrate metazoa of Goose Lake, near Muleshoe, on the Southern High Plains of Texas. Rotatoria were represented by Brachionus rubens (Ehrenberg), and Polyarthra sp. Arthropoda were represented by Daphnia pulex (deGeer) (Cladocera); Cyclops vernalis Fisher, Diaptomus siciloides Lilljeborg, D. clavipes Schacht (Copepoda); Eucypris sp. (Ostracoda); Arrenurus sp. (Hydracarina); Corixidae sp. (Insecta-Hemiptera); larvae of 2 spp. of Tendipedidae (Insecta-Diptera). Population changes of some of the species are noted.
10.2307/3668894|Report of the collection and distribution in Oklahoma of six fishes not previously recorded from the state (Salmo trutta, Hiodon tergisus, Ictalurus nebulosus, Typhlichthys subterraneus, Fundulus catenatus, Roccus saxatilis) brings the total number of species known from Oklahoma to 167. Three of the six represent introduced forms. A list of all exotic fishes known to be introduced into Oklahoma waters, with the available history of introduction, is included. Of the 14 known or postulated to be introduced, 5 are utilized as bait species and 9 were introduced as additional food for game fishes. Eight have had varying degrees of reproductive success; 5 of the game fishes were not expected to provide reproducing populations, and their success is dependent on continual restocking. Only the introduction of the tench, Tinca tinca, can be considered unsuccessful.
10.2307/3668895|Four species are reported from 3 counties. COLUBRIDAE: Natrix r. rhombifera Hallowell, Heterodon n. nasicus Baird & Girard (both Seward Co.). CROTALIDAE: Sistrurus catenatus Raf. (Meade Co.). Crotalus v. viridis Raf. (Finney Co.).
10.2307/3668896|An examination of 44 specimens of Citellus mexicanus parvidens (Mearns) from south, central and west Texas with a reflection meter shows that there is a statistically significant difference in pelage color. West Texas specimens in general are significantly lighter than those from central and south Texas. This is assumed to be the result of response to a particular type of environment (soil coloration), resulting from the pressure of natural selection.
10.2307/3668897|Barbula (Streblotrichum) whitehouseae from north central Texas and B. (Helicopogon) haringae from southeastern Arizona are described and named as new.
10.2307/3668898|Shrub or small tree related to G. nudiflora (Hemsl.) Koehne; holotype in Herb. University of Texas.
10.2307/3669674|The vegetation on two unusual substrates (lava and gypsum sand) is compared, and causative factors influencing distribution are discussed.
10.2307/3669675|A new minnow, Dionda diaboli, related to D. episcopa Girard and D. rasconis (Jordan and Snyder), is decribed. The new species is based on specimens from the Devil's River and other spring-fed tributaries to the Rio Grande in Kinney and Val Verde counties, Texas. The holotype is University of Michigan Museum of Zoology No. 168971. Several populations of both related species were studied. The species are found to be made up of many isolated and morphologically distinct populations.
10.2307/3669676|Information on the known range and breeding habits of Ambystoma annulatum is summarized. The restriction of the range to the Interior Highland is pointed out, and 3 new breeding localities (Washington and Madison counties, Arkansas) are reported. Breeding occurs in fall, following rains; larval period is estimated to be between 215 and 225 days.
10.2307/3669677|Specimens of Terrapene carolina triunguis in a large population near Norman, Oklahoma, exhibited the presence of carapace pitting, involving both horn and bone, which was associated with the anterior border of the third costal scutes. Pitting was more abundant in females, with an increasing tendency to be present, in both sexes, with increasing carapace length. The cause of this pitting is not known.
10.2307/3669129|Higher categories of vertebrate animals (especially Reptilia. Aves, Mammalia, and orders within the Mammalia) are readily distinguished by structural features showing adaptation to environment. The more numerous higher categories among angiosperms, on the contrary, are distinguished by combinations of many structural features showing no apparent adaptation to environment. Darwinian evolution is prominent at all taxonomic levels among the higher vertebrate animals. Orthogenetic evolution is prominent at higher taxonomic levels among angiosperms, while Darwinian evolution apparently is operative chiefly at the rank of genus and below. The great difference in the ease with which higher animal categories can be recognized and handled taxonomically as compared with corresponding categories among the flowering plants is the consequence of a fundamental difference in the prevailing mode of evolution.
10.2307/3669130|Stomach contents are reported for 83 croaker (Micropogon undulatus) and 280 sand trout (Cynoscion arenarius); also for a few individuals each of sheepshead (Archosargus oviceps), sand perch Bairdiella chrysura), gafftopsail catfish (Bagre marinus), spadefish (Chaetodipterus faber), flounder (Paralichthys lethostigma), and redfish (Sciaenops ocellata). Variety is characteristic in the diets of all species. Populations of these fishes depend upon an adequate supply of small fishes, shrimps, and mollusks.
10.2307/3669131|A tadpole of Scaphiopus bombifrons was seen to kill and eat eight others of its kind (in Tillman Co., Oklahoma). No others in several cultures were predaceously cannibalistic and predation could not be induced by feeding dead tadpoles to hungry individuals. Eight out of several hundreds preserved as collected at the same time and place had a buccal apparatus like that of the cannibal and were presumably cannibalistic in nature.
10.2307/3669132|Three species of rabbits are identified among fossil specimens from Friesenhahn Cave, Bexar Co. (late Pleistocene deposits): Sylvilagus floridanus (J. A. Allen), S. auduboni (Baird), and Lepus californicus Gray. The fossil S. floridanus are compared with Recent examples of the same species. In three of four lower-jaw characters the fossil rabbits proved to be significantly larger than representatives of the same species now occurring in the area.
10.2307/3669133|Previously only 16 mosses and 8 hepatics were known from Guadalupe Island. During its Spring 1955 cruise the "Orca" touched at the Northeast Anchorage where the junior author collected between 2800 and 3800 ft. alt. during two days. Fifteen mosses (including 1 species previously collected by A. W. Anthony) and 3 liverworts are listed. Ten of the mosses are new to the island, and 3 (Tortula ruralis, Grimmia trichophylla var. brachycarpa, Orthotrichum bolanderi) are new to Mexico.
10.2307/3669134|Weed calendars were kept for January-May 1954 and 1955, involving 75 species, more than half native. Details are given for the 25 most abundant. Percentage of those initiating flowering reached a peak in April; of those actually in bloom, about mid-May. A list and tables are given for the commonest species by month, growth habit, and habitat, with tables of temperatures and precipitation for the two seasons.
10.2307/3669135|Chromosome counts for these three genera are reported for the first time, made for a total of five species. Lindheimera (x=8) has one species (L. texana Gray & Engelm.) in Oklahoma and Texas, a second (L. mexicana Gray) in Mexico. L. texana has large meiotic chromosomes, showing three or more chiasmata at metaphase. Engelmannia (x=9) is monotypic (E. pinnatifida T. & G.) and is widespread throughout southwestern U. S. and adjacent Mexico. Berlandiera (x=15) has four species in the southeastern and southwestern U. S. and Mexio; counts were made for three: B. lyrata Benth. var. lyrata, B. pumila (Michx.) Nutt., B. texana DC. var. texana, and B. texana var. betonicifolia (Hook.) T & G. Meiotic chromosomes of the two latter genera are smaller than those of Lindheimera, and show only two terminalized chiasmata at metaphase. From comparison of chromosomal information with that available for other members of the subtribe Melampodinae (including an unpublished report of x=10 for Melampodium), it is concluded that cytological evidence supports Asa Gray's opinion that the subtribe is an "artificial group." Taxonomy and nomenclature of Texas species of Berlandiera is discussed and a key given for three taxa which have received varying treatment. B. dealbata (T. & G.) Small is merged with the earlier described B. pumila of the southeastern U. S. B. texana DC. is treated as a variable species which intergrades with B. pumila in eastern Texas, the numerous, seemingly intermediate populations from the latter area being treated as B. texana var. betonicifolia.
10.2307/3668985|A complete census was made in a bottomland forest near Norman, Oklahoma, in 1956. Of the 13 tree species encountered, green ash (Fraxinus pennsylvanica var. subintegerrima) was the only dominant. American elm (Ulmus americana), cottonwood (Populus Sargentii) and persimmon (Diospyros virginiana) were important secondary species. The considerable number of dead trees, the paucity of saplings, and the data from previous studies suggested that this forest had be deteriorating since 1948.
10.2307/3668986|The physico-chemical features of Clear Creek, a headwater stream in Northwestern Arkansas, did not differ much from those described for limestone area streams in other parts of the U.S. The bottom fauna was dominated by insects. Of the fifty-three species (or groups) forty-four are insects. Differences in relative composition between upstream and downstream stations were observed. The rather low fall standing crop gradually increased until in late winter at which time the maximum occurred. This large standing crop was then abruptly reduced by the erosional effects of flood waters. Following flooding, the relative composition of the standing crop was altered, apparently as a direct result of certain members being able to better withstand the erosional conditions.
10.2307/3668987|The shallow-water fish fauna of the northern Gulf of Mexico proper is but scantily reported in the literature. A study of the beach zone at Gilchrist, Texas, during the summer of 1955 revealed the presence of 38 species of fishes. Certain of the Gulf inhabitants appeared to have moved into the area from East Bay through the newly-constructed Rollover Pass. The relative abundance and size distribution of several species indicated conditions intermediate between those of the Louisiana and lower Texas coasts.
10.2307/3668988|The average rate of growth of blue catfish (Ictalurus furcatus) in Lake Texoma as calculated from examination of spines of 192 individuals, 5 to 44 inches in total length, indicated that a length of 5.7 inches was reached at the end of the first year of life, and in successive years, average total lengths of 10.0, 13.8, 17.4, 21.0, 25.8, 30.3, 34.3, 40.4, 42.1, and 44.0 inches were attained. The length-weight relationship of individuals in the length-range 9-27 inches is described by the equation logW =-2.9988 + 3.3993 log L, and from 27-45 inches by the equation log W = -3.4110 + 3.7055 log L. The rate of growth was much faster than that exhibited by channel catfish, and nearly equal to flathead catfish growth. Attention should be given to the feasibility of introducing blue catfish into small lakes as a potential sport and food fish.
10.2307/3668989|Ranges of the amphibians and reptiles of the Interior Highland (Ozark Plateau and Ouachita Mountains) are contrasted, and an attempt is made to correlate present distributions with the geologic and paleoclimatic history of the region. Salamanders are found to be better indicators of past distributional patterns than the other groups. The ecology of endemic species is described and interpreted in terms of adaptation for a semi-arid climate. Six herpetofaunal invasions of the Highland are suggested: a quite recent one from the east (Coastal Plain), a somewhat older one from the western plains, a late Pleistocene invasion from the north, and three or more older invasions from the Appalachian region. The predominance of eastern sources may be due to heavy reliance for evidence being put on salamanders (mostly deriving from the humid east), and not a true picture for the herpetofauna as a whole.
10.2307/3668990|In Dona Ana County, New Mexico, Dipodomys ordii had a breeding season extending from the last two weeks in February to the first two weeks in June in 1956. The modal date for births was April 1. Females probably had two litters per season and averaged 2.37 embryos per pregnancy; since the adult sex-ratio was probably 1:1, the populational birth rate was no higher than 237 per cent.
10.2307/3669559|One hundred twenty-six species in 48 genera are recorded, 16 species new to the state list. Nineteen species previously recorded are of doubtful validity. Oklahoma and continental distribution are summarized and are correlated with physiography, climate, and vegetation. Fifty-two percent of the species are Eastern, 19 percent Transcontinental, 13 percent Western, and none are restricted to Oklahoma. Forty percent of all species cross the state in an east or west direction. Fifty-three percent are restricted in an east or west direction, 40 percent to eastern Oklahoma, 13 percent to western Oklahoma. Only eight percent are restricted in a north or south direction. Distribution within the state is correlated with the east-west precipitation gradient, not with the north-south temperature gradient. The central portion of the state, including 16 counties between Kay and Marshall, is an area of overlap for eastern and western species.
10.2307/3669560|Sixteen species of Mexican snakes are discussed. Range extensions are noted for Lampropeltis triangulum annulata, Lampropeltis getulus nigritus, Pituophis catenifer affinis, Toluca lineata lineata, Salvadora intermedia, Trimorphodon latifascia, Trimorphodon lambda, and Crotalus trigris. An altitudinal record of 5,200 feet is reported for Crotalus basiliscus basiliscus. Additional data are presented on three rare snakes, Lampropeltis getulus nigritus, Trimorphodon tau, and Leptodiera punctata. Crotalus intermedius gloydi is considered a valid subspecies occupying the Oaxacan highlands. The name Salvadora intermedia richardi Smith appears to be based on an individual variant and should be submerged. The authors question the inclusion of Lampropeltis polyzona Cope in the species complex Lamproeltis triangulum and they suggest that Salvadora bairdi and S. lineata are not specifically distinct but rather are geographic races of S. bairdi.
10.2307/3669561|The spring arrival dates in the Mesilla Valley, New Mexico, for eighteen species of summer resident birds are presented graphically.
10.2307/3669562|Owl-pellets from a small, rocky cave in northeastern Chihuahua yielded remains of at least 277 individuals of vertebrates, mostly small mammals, including the first desert shrews (Notiosorex crawfordi) from the state, and a chipmunk (Eutamias sp.) more than 100 miles from its nearest known occurrence. The fauna is characteristic of the Southwestern Desert.
10.2307/3669563|Key, synonymy, and geographic distribution are given for the 3 recognized species. E. Barkleyi Standley (Coahuila, Mexico), is described as new, and the following new combinations are published: E. grandiflorum (Raf.) (replacing E. Russellianum), with f. bicolor (Standley), f. Fisheri (Standley), f. flaviflorum (Cockerell), f. roseum (Standley).
10.2307/3669492|Pursh (1814) referred the mistletoes of the southeastern U.S. to the West Indian Viscum flavens Sw., misspelling the name flavescens. The latter epithet has been widely used in the combination Phoradendron flavescens, applied to a different species from the West Indian one, but as a mere misspelling not intended as the name of a new species, it has no nomenclatural standing. To replace the illegitimate Phoradendron flavescens, the new combination P. serotinum (Raf.) is published, and transfers are made for 4 varieties: var. pubescens (Engelm. ex Gray), var. macrophyllum (Engelm.), var. rotundifolium (Trel.), and var. macrotomum (Trel.).
10.2307/3669493|An English translation is given of the whole account of Tamarix in the Flora of the Soviet Union, vol. XV, 1949, treating 20 accepted species, 5 hybrid species, and 3 species of doubtful status. In an Appendix are given a key to and notes on 7 taxons found in the Southwestern U.S., 5 of them wild. Except for T. aphylla (L.) Karst. (wild in Texas and Arizona, widely cultivated in warmer areas) and T. africana Poir. (rare, only in cultivation), the nomenclature of the introduced plants is either unknown or uncertain. T. gallica L. var. gallica, to which most U.S. plants are often referred, apparently is not found here. T. pentandra Pall., another name often applied to our plants, is not recognized in the FL. USSR, though described from Russia. Most of our naturalized plants are in the T. gallica complex and may eventually prove to be named varieties of that species. A few collections from the Texas Gulf Coast are tentatively referred to T. speciosa Ball of North Africa, not previously reported from the New World; distinguished by producing few simple racemes on old wood in summer, and by the lowest floral bracts having tips differing in texture and color from the body.
10.2307/3669494|The anatomy of the gastropod Rumina decollata (native of the Mediterranean region, introduced in the southeastern U.S.) is described from gross dissection of organ systems. Reproduction is traced through copulation, egg-laying, and rapid direct development to maturity. At Abilene, Texas, the animal was found to be active following late summer rains and intermittently through the winter (burrowing in very cold weather), going into estivation for the dry summer season.
10.2307/3669495|Dinocheirus stercoreus Turk (1949, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. ser. 12, 2: 120-126) is designated type species of the new genus Tejachernes, characterized by having 3 setae (rarely a small additional seta as well) in the cheliceral flagellum, by lacking subbasal tactile seta on the cheliceral hand, by the arrangement of tactile setae on the chelal fingers, and by the absence of a tactile seta from the fourth pedal tarsus. A redescription of the species is given, based chiefly on a series of topotypes from Bracken Cave, Comal Co., Texas, plus collections from Frio Cave, Uvalde Co., Texas.
10.2307/3669496|Distribution patterns of most fresh-water fishes in Texas closely resemble those of terrestrial organisms, though there are 3 exceptional groups: (1) those limited by stream divides, (2) those of marine and freshwater forms meeting in fresh waters near the coast, and (3) certain species of northeastern Texas (Austroriparian) whose ranges include outliers or extensions into other biotic provinces. It is concluded that the basic factors controlling distribution patterns of fishes are climatic and geological, these determining the properties of the water.
10.2307/3669497|During the summers of 1951 and 1952, observations were made of the activities of four species of Cnemidophorus (perplexus, sacki, tessellatus, tigris) at three stations in Brewster and Presidio counties, Texas. The activities reported upon include foraging habits, responses to heat, home range, and breeding activities.
10.2307/3669498|The results of crop analyses of 57 Gambel's quail, collected in the Rio Grande drainage area of New Mexico during October, November, and December are reported. Of a food content totalling 178.9 cc., 91.6% consisted of seeds and fruits (mainly seeds), and 6.5% of greens (mainly alfalfa leaflets). All of the crops contained vegetable material. Animal material, consisting almost entirely of insects (mainly beetles, true bugs, and ants), occurred in 68.4% of the crops, but volumetrically it accounted for only 1.6% of the total food contents. Less than 500 individual insects were present, a mere trace compared with the more than 60,000 separate food items identified. This extreme preponderance of vegetable material has been previously reported for other parts of the species' range. Although at least 87 plant species were represented, 22 of these made up 90.4% of the total volume, and 92.8% of the total number of individual items. Plants of the legume, goosefoot, grass, and sunflower families were especially well represented in the diet. Marked use of native legumes such as mesquite (Prosopis juliflora), screwbean (Prosopis pubescens), and peabush (Dalea scoparis) was very noticeable. Equally so was heavy utilization of exotic weeds such as Russian thistle (Salsola kali) and Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), as well as of exotic crop plants such as sorghum (Sorghum vulgare) and alfalfa (Medicago sativa). It is suggested that flexibility in feeding habits may help to explain the continued success of Gambel's quail in regions greatly altered by farming and grazing.
10.2307/3669006|Tamarix pentandra Pallas (as treated in Kearney & Peebles' Arizona Flora) was observed on the Salt River in Arizona blooming in early spring with racemes on last season's wood. A month later terminal panicles were formed on new shoots; a succession of these panicles continued forming until the last bloom in September. This indicates that the plant observed is in the group Vernali-Aestivales rather than the Aestivales as formerly reported for Tamarix pentandra.
10.2307/3669007|Key, principal synonymy, and distribution (based largely on collections in the U.S. National Herbarium) are given for 9 accepted species, 3 of these with 2 varieties each: F. segregata (Jacq.) Krug & Urban (syn.: F. porulosa) with var. pinetorum (Small) n. comb., F. angustifolia Torr. (incl. F. texana and its var. Palmeri), F. puberula Eastw., F. Shrevei Standl., F. acuminata (Michx.) Poir. with f. vestita (E. J. Palmer) n. comb., F. neomexicana Gray and its var. arizonica Gray, F. pubescens Nutt. and its var. glabrifolia Shinners, F. ligustrina (Michx.) Poir. (incl. F. autumnalis; syn. F. Wrightiana), F. reticulata Torr.
10.2307/3669008|Records are cited for the following: Charophycophyta-Characeae: Chara contraria A. Br. (Maricopa Co.), C. zeylandica Klein (with preceding), C. globularis Thuill. (Apache Co., Navajo Co.), Nitella sp. Angiospermae-Najadaceae: Najas marina L. (Maricopa Co.), Hydrocharitaceae: Vallisneria americana Michx. (Maricopa Co., new to Arizona). Gentianaceae: Menyanthes trifoliata L. (Apache Co.; new to Arizona).
10.2307/3669009|An annotated check list is given for the Gene Howe Wildlife Management Area, located 7 miles northeast of Canadian, in the northeastern corner of the Texas Panhandle. The Area includes 5,700 acres of floodplains and bottom lands of the Canadian River and rolling sand hills back from the river. The known flora comprises 297 species in 65 families. Lycopus asper Greene and Scutellaria lateriflora L. are reported from the state for the first time, so far as known. Agrimonia parviflora Ait., Agrostis gigantea Roth, and Mentha arvensis L. were previously recorded for the state, but were not represented by specimens in the principal Texas herbaria. Lespedeza capitata Michx. has been collected previously only in Lamar Co., northeastern Texas.
10.2307/3669032|Evolution of means of crossing barriers and discontinuities between suitable habitats has been a characteristic of plants, resulting in various and highly ingenious dispersal mechanisms. Most of these are adaptations to take advantage of different dispersal agents. Prominent among these agents are animals, of which man has, at least in recent time, been the most effective. Certain plants have evolved so far in this direction as to become entirely dependent on man for their dispersal. Most of these are cultivated plants, deliberately carried around by man. Some are even reproductively sterile. That this is a highly successful adaptation is shown by the wide distribution and enormous numbers of individuals of certain man-carried species. The effects of man's activities as a dispersal agent are various. Species have disappeared and other new ones have come into existence as a result. Floras have been confused and the natural distribution patterns obscured. Additional variable factors have been added to an already complex situation. Perhaps an additional result of this is the well-known aversion of so many botanists to the study of cultivated plants and other taxonomic and vegetational situations dominated by man.
10.2307/3669033|Twenty pounds of 10 per cent heptachlor were applied per acre on the northern half of the Fralise Farm near Sour Lake, Texas. Fish kill was heavy and continued for over three weeks. Young fish died first. The few survivors were usually large and, except for shad and gambusia, were thin. Two months after the poisoning, larvae of several species were found, and the population of fishes appeared to be on the way to recovery. During a later treatment of the southern part of the farm, extreme care was taken to avoid contamination of water with heptachlor. Fish kill was avoided.
10.2307/3669034|The relative abundance of fishes at specific central Texas localities usually is more or less constant. Notable exceptions include: replacement of Gambusia geiseri by Notropis venustus and N. amabilis in the South Concho River; the disappearance of Hadropterus scierus in the Guadalupe River in Kerr County; and the drastic reduction in Etheostoma spectabile populations in the Colorado River in Austin and consequent increase of E. lepidum and E. chlorosomum populations. The variations are correlated with known changes in stream ecology.
10.2307/3669035|Five anuran amphibians (Scaphiopus sp. couchi or hurteri?, Eleutherodactylus augusti, Bufo cognatus?, Rana pipiens, Rana sp. cf. catesbeiana), one lizard (Crotaphytus collaris), and two snakes (Pituophis melanoleucus, Crotalus atrox) are identified from late Pleistocene deposits of Friesenhahn Cave, Bexar County, Texas. One fossil toad is described as a new subspecies, Bufo woodhousei bexarensis. Most of the fossil species occur in the area today, and no drastic faunal shift or climatic change in more recent times appears to be indicated.
10.2307/3669036|Distribution and derivation of the Big Bend herpetofauna is briefly discussed. The general picture is one of a xeric grassland fauna at lower elevations and rock crevice species at higher. Most of the species are characteristic of (1) the arid basins of the southwestern U. S. and northwestern Mexico (2) the Chihuahuan Desert and northern Sierra Madre Orientale. A few species appear to be relicts associated with montane forest. Almost one fourth of the species are endemic, show locally differentiated populations, or are isolated to some extent. Based on personal collecting and literature records, 69 species are known from the area. Notes on variation, habits, and habitat are given for many.
10.2307/3669037|Tadpoles of Scaphiopus bombifrons were studied in pools and several cannibalistic individuals observed. Variation in mouth parts of several hundreds of preserved tadpoles indicated the following tendencies in the cannibalistic type: (1) greater overall variation; (2) loss of dental row 1; (3) closure of the dorsal papillary gap; (4) reduction in number from two to one papillary rows; (5) presence of smaller and finer labial teeth in some rows; and (6) formation of distinct lips. It is emphasized that all of these are tendencies, not absolutes, and that there are many variations and intermediate conditions, some of which are described. The labial formula in 402 specimens varied from 0/0 to 6/6 with the most frequent value 4/4.
10.2307/3669039|Thirteen of the 14 U.S. species of Hyla are arranged in species groups primarily on the basis of mating-call structure. This is used in conjunction with evidence of genetic compatibility and morphological characters. The versicolor group includes the species versicolor, phaeocrypta, femoralis, arenicolor and baudini. The cinerea group includes cinerea, andersoni, and gratiosa. The squirella group tentatively includes squirella and regilla. Three other species, crucifer, ocularis, and septentrionalis do not appear closely related to any of these groups. The first two of these have calls that show similarities to calls of members of the currently recognized genus Pseudacris.
10.2307/3669040|Field observations on sleeping fence lizards are presented with descriptions of sleeping sites. Fence lizards are consistent in the selection of a sleeping site at least over short periods insofar as climatic conditions permit. Consistency in the selection of a sleeping site is discussed in reference to the concept of home range.
10.2307/3669041|The name Cnemidophorus variolosus Cope, 1892, is revived as a subspecific name for populations of the species Cnemidophorus tigris inhabiting extreme southern Coahuila and adjacent Durango. This southern form is distinguished from the adjacent (northern) subspecies, C. t. marmoratus, by a heavy accumulation of melanic pigment on the venter and also by differences in dorsal pattern. The known geographic distribution of variolosus is described, and that of marmoratus is revised.
10.2307/3669042|Several field trips to two little known caves in the Edwards Plateau of Texas have yielded some information on the habits and occurrence of three species of bats. Mormoops megalophylla, Tadarida mexicana and Myotis velifer were observed in association in Valdina Farms Sinkhole, Medina County. Valdina Farms Sinkhole and Webb Cave, Kinney County represent two new locality records for Mormoops megalophylla.
10.2307/3669043|Results of live-trapping of Perognathus nelsoni on limestone slopes in the desert of southeastern Brewster County, Texas, during spring and/or early summer, 1956-1958, are presented. Individual ranges were mapped and those of females found to be complementary. Males had a similar system overlapping that of the females. Juvenal males were trapped in July at sites not frequented by adults in spring or summer. The movement of the former to optimal terrain after some resident males had disappeared suggests that the social organization of adult males influences the pattern of dispersal of juveniles.
10.2307/3669044|As a member of the Sefton-Stanford Expedition of 1952 to Baja California and the off-shore islands, the junior author collected a surprising number of mosses and hepatics in the extremely forbidding habitats available on Los Cedros (26 spp.), Cerralvo (6 spp.) and Partida (2 spp.) Islands and also on the mainland at Baha de los Muertos (1 sp.). Taxonomic and distributional notes accompany the species reported, and novelties include Aloina pilifera (BSG) n. comb. (for Barbula rigida var. pilifera BSG) and Crossidium seriatum n. sp. (from Los Cedros Island). Both the latter are illustrated.
10.2307/3669045|A comparison of the number of grass species in 10 regions of Texas and an analysis of the representation of the following 8 categories of grasses of the regions: native perennial warm-season, native perennial cool-season, native annual warm season, native annual cool season, introduced perennial warm-season, introduced perennial cool-season, introduced annual warm-season, introduced annual cool-season.
10.2307/3669046|From a restricted range in eastern Texas three chromosome numbers for Claytonia virginica L. are reported. Three individuals have been found with somatic numbers of 14, and one each with 15 and 28 chromosomes. No significant differences in gross morphology or pollen grain size were noted between these cytologically diverse individuals.
10.2307/3669047|The following taxa, all in subfamily Cleomoideae, occur in the state: Polanisia dodecandra (L.) DC., ssp. dodecandra var. trachysperma (T. & G.) Iltis. P. dodecandra ssp. uniglandulosa (Cav.) Iltis, Cleome lutea Hook., C. serrulata Pursh, C. multicaulis Sess & Mocio, Cleomella longipes Torr., Wislizenia refracta Engelm. In addition, Polanisia jamesii (T. & G.) Iltis (Cristatella jamesii T. & G.) is to be expected, since it occurs near the New Mexico boundary in adjacent states on the northeast and southeast. Keys, synonymy, descriptions, distribution, and flowering period are given for all these taxa. This study is based on specimens deposited at the following institutions: University of New Mexico, New Mexico College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts, Missouri Botanical Garden, U.S. National Herbarium, and University of Wisconsin. Grateful acknowledgement is due the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation, which supported final phases of the work during the summer of 1957. The following family description applies especially to New Mexican representatives, all of which are members of the subfamily Cleomoideae.
10.2307/3669048|The study of Rosa foliolosa Nutt. is discussed under the disciplines of gross- and micro-morphology, phytogeography, cytology, and taxonomy.
10.2307/3669049|The study of Rosa setigera Michx. (a diploid species in the section Synstylae) is discussed under the disciplines of gross- and micro-morphology, phytogeography, ecology (transplant experiments), cytology, and taxonomy.
10.2307/3669050|Key and principal synonymy are given for the 18 accepted Texas species of Croton, and maps are provided to show Texas distribution as indicated by herbarium specimens in several institutions. The species include C. glandulosus L. (3 varieties in Texas: var. septentrionalis Muell. Arg., var. Lindheimeri Muell. Arg., and var. pubentissimus Croizat); C. monanthogynus Michx.; C. leucophyllus Muell. Arg. var. leucophyllus, incl. C. Palmeri S. Wats. (the Mexican variety trisepalis Ferguson is also mentioned); C. corymbulosus Engelm. (var. corymbulosus, and var. thermophilus, new variety); C. Lindheimerianus Scheele (var. Lindheimerianus, and var. Tharpii, new variety); C. capitatus Michx. (var. capitatus, var. Lindheimeri (Engelm. & Gray) Muell. Arg., and var. albinoides (Ferguson) Shinners, incl. C. Muelleri Coulter); C. Coryi Croizat; C. punctatus Jacq.; C. dioicus Cav. (incl. C. neomexicanus Muell. Arg.); C. texensis (Klotzsch) Muell. Arg.; C. Parksii Croizat; C. argyranthemus Michx.; C. ciliatoglandulosus Ort.; C. humilis L.; C. Torreyanus Muell. Arg.; C. suaveolens Torr.; C. Cortesianus H.B.K.; C. fruticulosus Engelm.; lectotypes are designated for several of these names.
10.2307/3669051|Chromosome numbers for four species of Hedyotis are reported: H. crassifolia Raf. (2n = 16), H. corymbosa (L.) Lam. (2n = 18), H. nigricans (Lam.) Fosb. (2n = 18), and H. australis Lewis & Moore (2n = 32). Though data are scanty, it appears from these and other numbers that the basic chromosome complements of eight and nine exist for the genus, with nine the more common.
10.2307/3669052|On morphological and cytological evidence, the small, white-petalled bluet described as Hedyotis crassifolia var. micrantha Shinners is given specific status as H. australis, the epithet micrantha having been previously used in that rank.
10.2307/3669524|Nineteen species of darters (family Percidae, subfamily Etheostomatinae) were found in that part of Oklahoma north and east of the Arkansas River. Of these, four are species of limited distribution, whereas 15 are wide-ranging species in the United States. Sixty-one species-pair combinations were never found in the same collection; other species-pair combinations were found associated with various degrees of frequency. The biotic districts of W. F. Blair and Hubbell were found, in general, to have reality as regards darter distribution.
10.2307/3669525|Westward range extensions are shown for Choeronycteris mexicana, Leptonycteris nivalis sanborni, Perognathus flavus flavus, and Reithrodontomys montanus montanus. The second and third Arizonan specimens of Eumops underwoodi sonoriensis are recorded from the Baboquivari Mts. Second and third locality records for Arizona of Sigmodon ochrognathus montanus are given. New distributional records of the rare Notiosorex crawfordi crawfordi and Tadarida femorosacca are presented.
10.2307/3669526|Geographic variation and distribution of the five forms of the long-tailed group of the snake genus Arizona are discussed. The recognition of a new form of Arizona elegans in northeastern Mexico necessitates a nomenclatural change for the populations in Texas and Northeastern Mexico. The validity of the subspecies blanchardi Klauber is established. Additional specimens have broadened the known variational and distributional pattern of A. e. expolita Klauber.
10.2307/3669527|New records and literature reports for nine species of carnivores and artiodoctyls are listed from Hansford, Hutchinson and other counties of the Texas Panhandle from 1951 to 1957.
10.2307/3669528|A comparative study was made of the subterranean and aerial portions of O. imbricata. This plant had a fibrous root system which branched out into the quaternary division. Roots of both tertiary and quaternary divisions were fairly well covered with hairs. The surface area of the tops exceeded the subterranean surface by about 3:1. Stomates in the epidermal surface of the canes numbered 11 per sq. mm.
10.2307/3669086|An ecological analysis was made in 1956 of grasslands in Platt National Park, Oklahoma that had been protected from disturbance for approximately 26 years. These grasslands were of 3 types on the basis of vegetation composition. The Andropogon scoparius type occupies mesic, upland sites with well drained soils. Andropogon scoparius and Sporobolus asper var. pilosus are the dominants. Forbs are mostly perennials typical of true prairie. Vegetation of this type is in a late stage of succession approaching a true prairie climax. The Bouteloua hirsuta type occupies xeric upland sites with thin, dry soils. Principal dominants are Bouteloua hirsuta and Aristida purpurea. Forbs are mostly annuals and short-lived perennials. Relict preclimax sites are occupied principally by B. hirsuta. Sites occupied primarily by other short grasses and weedy forbs are subclimaxes probably caused by severe overgrazing in years past. The Muhlenbergia Reverchoni type occupies poorly drained, thin soils that are saturated in spring and very dry in late summer. It is a subsere community in which Muhlenbergia Reverchoni, the only dominant, comprises most of the vegetation.
10.2307/3669087|The ectoparasites and endoparasites of Mormoops megalophylla, Myotis velifer, Eptesicus fuscus, Corynorhinus rafinesquei, and Tadarida brasiliensis were collected, identified, and counted. The ectoparasites included fleas, streblids, nycteribiids, mites, and ticks. Mites were the only external parasites found on all five bat species. Endoparasites included trematodes, cestodes, and nematodes. No effort was made to find blood parasites.
10.2307/3669088|A study of the stratification of birds in forested areas was made in Veracruz and Oaxaca, Mexico, in December, 1957. The largest number of species were observed in low understory. It was found generally that species of large families of birds were spread generally through all the forest strata, perhaps in their manner reducing competition among species. Many notes on color, weight and maturity of birds of many species are recorded.
10.2307/3669089|The genus Zapriothrica includes some poorly known flies which live in the flowers of Datura in Central and South America. In addition to the type species, dispar Schiner, from Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela, the following three new species are described: hirta (Ecuador), sternalis (Ecuador), and nudiseta (Mexico). Possible natural hybridization between hirta and sternalis is discussed.
10.2307/3669090|During the months of June and July, 1951, a field party from the University of Texas collected amphibians and reptiles from the Black Gap Area (29 30 to 29 40 N.-102 50 to 103 W.), Brewster County, Texas. The area under study was divided into five general habitat types: the streambed, floodplain and pond, limestone slope, igneous slope and canyon and cliff. The tabulated summation of this habitat data clearly showed species preferences. A total of 452 specimens were taken including 114 frogs and toads of four genera, 263 lizards of eight genera, 74 snakes of ten genera and 3 turtles of one genus. A slight eastward range extension is noted for Sonora semiannulata blanchardi.
10.2307/3669019|Examination of internodes of 133 species of grasses from 80 genera of 21 tribes indicates that the often-repeated statement that, "the internodes of grasses are usually hollow," is either misleading or incorrect. Data from the above study and other reports demonstrate that 54 per cent of 190 species have solid internodes. Among the Festucoideae about 7 per cent of species have solid internodes. Among the tribes of the Panicoideae solid internodes range from 46 per cent in the Paniceae to 100 per cent in the more specialized arid land tribes. The character of internodes is of taxonomic value. It may be of survival value in the contrasting environments occupied by the various tribes.
10.2307/3669020|Most grasses have a swollen pulvinus at the base of the sheath. Many grasses have also a swollen pulvinus at the base of the internode. Some have both, but few have neither. The subfamily Festucoideae is characterized by no culm pulvinus, but a highly specialized sheath pulvinus. The Panicoideae are characterized by a fairly well-developed culm pulvinus but a sheath pulvinus poorly-developed or lacking. The type of pulvinus is probably correlated with the hollow or solid internode character, and can be used in systematics.
10.2307/3669021|Only 24 species of odonates are recorded in the literature from Arkansas. Basic collection data are given for 28 additional species.
10.2307/3669022|Studies of the biology of hibernating and summer colonies of bats as well as of other smaller harborages in northwest Texas from 1956 to 1959 have provided a better understanding of bat distribution on the high plains. Nine species of bats are recorded herein including the second state record for Lasionycteris noctivagans, the easternmost record of Pipistrellus hesperus in Texas; the western-most record of Pipistrellus subflavus; and the first record of Tadarida molossa from northwest Texas. The zoogeographical affinities and seasonal occurrence of all of the bats recorded from northwestern Texas are discussed.
10.2307/3669023|Ten species of slugs, representing four families, are known from Oklahoma. Three of these, Limax marginatus (Mller), Pallifera hemphilli marmorea Pilsbry and Veronicella krausi (Frussac) are reported from Oklahoma for the first time. The distribution of each species within Oklahoma and a few ecological observations are given.
10.2307/3669024|A review of regional history was made and very little mention of scaled quail was found. A mail and personal interview and direct observation survey of scaled quail distribution in western Oklahoma was made. From the survey, a population of 980 scaled quail (exclusive of Cimarron County) was estimated to be present in 16 western Oklahoma counties during 1954-1957. A total of 47.1% of the scaled quail tallied in this survey was from the sand sagebrush vegetation type. Any releases made for restocking purposes should be restricted to this vegetation type.
10.2307/3669407|During 10 years of collecting with several kinds of gear, 71 species have been collected from the main body, headwaters, tailwaters and inundated tributaries of Lake Texoma. Annotations on ecology, reproduction and abundance are included.
10.2307/3669408|The response of wild populations of scaled and Gambel's quail to artificial feeding of grain was studied, mainly during the three-year period 1954-56. Yearlong feeding was done at water developments in quail habitat of various kinds over a large area. Resultant quail increases, if any, were much too small to justify the high cost of feeding.
10.2307/3669409|The two species. Ammocrypta clara Jordan and Meek and Ammocrypta pellucida (Baird), are shown to be distinct on the basis of scale counts. opercle structure and pigmentation. The original descriptions of these two species were based on syntypes. Lectotypes are designated and described.
10.2307/3669410|Thirty-four species of Cladocera and 18 species of Copepoda were identified in samples taken from 33 cattle ponds, 21 streams, 9 roadside ditches, and 6 sloughs in Lyon County, Kansas, during the period September, 1958, to April, 1959. These species are listed in a check list with annotations of their relative abundance and seasonal occurrence as well as the water temperature and pH ranges of their habitats. Chydorus sphaericus (O.F.M.) was the most frequently collected copepod. Locality data for 4 species of Cladocera and Copepoda not reported previously in Kansas are included.
10.2307/3669411|Major range extensions are reported for Crotaphytus wislizeni and Cnemidophorus tigris in western Texas. Size at maturity, variation and sex ratios are discussed in Cnemidophorus tessellatus and C. tigris. No males have yet been recorded of C. tessellatus, while males outnumber females significantly in samples of C. tigris.
10.2307/3669412|Chromosome counts of n = 4 and 2n = 8 were obtained from meiotic and mitotic metaphase configurations in plants from 4 populations of C. pilosa from central Texas. A previous count for the species had been listed as n = 5, but it is apparent that this count was arrived at through a misinterpretation of the diakinesis pairing configurations of an exceptionally large chromosome pair.
10.2307/3669347|Key, synonymy, descriptions, and information on distribution and ecology are given for the two species recognized. These are Savia phyllanthoides (Nutt.) Pax & K. Hoffm. and S. arida, new species, with type from Brewster County, Texas.
10.2307/3669348|Examination of chloroplast distribution in the parenchyma sheath cells of 59 species of panicoid grasses has revealed that the Euphanicoideae and the Chloridoideae differ for this character. In all 28 species of the Eupanicoideae the chloroplasts, when devoid of starch, are grouped in the outer (centrifugal) region of the parenchyma sheath cells. Among the Chloridoideae, except the tribe Sporoboleae, the chloroplasts are grouped in the inner (centripetal) region of the cells. Both conditions in about equal numbers of species were found in the Sporoboleae. The distribution of chlroplasts is probably associated with the different physiological activities of chloroplasts in these two subgroups of the Panicoideae.
10.2307/3669349|Meiotic chromosome counts for 8 taxa, 7 species and 1 variety, of the genus Coreopsis are reported. These include the following: C. basalis var. basalis (n=13), C. basalis var. wrightii (n=13), C. cardaminefolia (n=12), C. lanceolata (n=13), C. linifolia (n=13), C. nuecensis (n=9), C. pubescens (n=14), and C. tinctoria (n=12). In several instances these counts differ for those previously reported for the taxa. Meiotic configurations in C. nuecensis showed apparent ring structures which appeared to be constant for the several plants examined. On the basis of existing information it seems likely that the ancestral base of the genus is x=12 or 13.
10.2307/3669350|Distributional records and taxonomic notes are presented for the following seven species of rare or little-known skinks from the Mexican states of Chihuahua and Durango: Eumeces brevirostris bilineatus, E. callicephalus, E. lynxe durangoensis, E. multilineatus, E. multivirgatus, E. obsoletus, and E. parviauriculatus. E. lynxe durangoensis Tanner is a junior synonym of E. lynxe belli (Gray). E. multivirgatus mexicanus Anderson and Wilhoft is probably a junior synonym of E. multilineatus Tanner.
10.2307/3669351|Study of the skulls of Oklahoma beavers and comparison with specimens from Texas and Kansas shows that individuals from the Red River drainage are referable to Castor canadensis texensis, those from the Arkansas River drainage to C. c. missouriensis.
10.2307/3669352|This is a report of various amphibians and reptiles from Arizona, in the Museum of Natural History, University of Illinois, that are of taxonomic interest. Of special importance are: a new character for Sceloporus undulatus virgatus; variation in Urosaurus ornatus schotti (=linearis) with comments on the status of U. o. symmetricus; review of diagnostic characters and ranges of Cnemidophorus tigris gracilis and C. t. aethiops.
10.2307/3669353|Two new geckos, Phyllodactylus duellmani and Phyllodactylus paucituberculatus, are described. The new species are based on specimens from the lower Balsas drainage of Michoacn, Mexico. The holotypes are in the University of Michigan Museum of Zoology. A brief summary of the natural groups of Phyllodactylus occurring in Mexico is given, along with characters used to distinguish these groups.
10.2307/3669455|From cytological examination of 1,293 root tip cells and microsporocytes from 51 plants of Tradescantia edwardsiana, it was determined that supernumerary chromosomes varied in number among cells of a plant, among plants of a population, and among the subpopulations. The supernumeraries are visible at interphase as heteropycnotic masses. During mitosis and usually during meiosis they stain the same as normal chromosomes. In occasional cells, elongate, lightly stained, possibly heteropycnotic supernumeraries were seen. It was concluded that the supernumeraries are of recent origin; they are slightly detrimental to plants possessing them, and such plants are restricted to "superior" sites, in this case, disturbed soil.
10.2307/3669456|The egg production of Streptocephalus seali Ryder, a common North American fairy shrimp, is reported. This large production, which is twice that of the only other recorded species, is perhaps a factor in the wide distribution of the species. A new distinction between S. seali and Streptocephalus texanus Packard is described and illustrated.
10.2307/3669457|Syrrhophus sp. is reported from Knox County, Texas; Pseudacris cf. triseriata from Meade County, Kansas and Beaver County, Oklahoma; and Acris cf. gryllus from Meade County, Kansas. The relation of these finds to late Cenozoic climatic conditions is discussed.
10.2307/3669458|The red fox is established in the eastern half of Oklahoma. The Mississippi Valley fox, Vulpes vulpes regalis is found in the hilly regions of the State. The eastern fox, V. v. fulva is probably the form found in the Red River Valley. Considerable importation of red foxes into eastern Oklahoma is occurring.
10.2307/3669459|Aridity on the Chihuahuan Desert of the southwestern United States and northern Mexico was relieved at times during the Pleistocene by pluvial periods. These moist periods permitted invasion of the desert by more mesic species from the east, and 14 such species exist on the desert today as relicts. They show little divergence from their main populations to the east. Five areas on the Chihuahuan Desert appear to be particularly suited to the existence of relicts. All of the relicts are in constant danger of extinction by either drought or flash flood.
10.2307/3669460|Three new species of the dipterous family Drosophilidae are described: Chymomyza olympia from Washington, formerly reported as "?distincta Egger"; Leucophenga neovaria from Florida, Puerto Rico, Jamaica, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Colombia and Venezuela; and Amiota huachucae from Arizona, formerly reported as albavictoria Patterson and Mainland.
10.2307/3669461|The patterns of oviposition of Pseudacris streckeri and Hyla versicolor are described. It is suggested that differences in ovipositional patterns of closely related species of anurans may act as ethological isolating mechanisms.
10.2307/3669505|Evidence has been obtained that female filaments of two heterothallic species of Oedogonium produce a substance or substances in conjunction with oogonium formation which chemotactically attracts sperms. Sterile female filaments do not produce this substance. These substances are specific for these two species. Crude preparations of these active substances were studied and some of their properties are reported.
10.2307/3669506|Shinnery is scattered throughout the western third of Oklahoma principally on coarse soils derived from materials of the Pliocene and Pleistocene epochs. It occurs on sandy soils (Brownfield and Nobscott series) throughout the mixed prairie and short grass plains in a region of low precipitation (20 in. to 25 in.). The most common species is Quercus Havardi, although Q. stellata, Q. Margaretta and Q. Mohriana are present. The shinnery constitutes an oak population of extreme hybridity with Q. Havardi x Q. stellata being the most common hybrids. Most stands of shinnery are two to four feet high, although the height may vary from one to 40 feet. Since no germination of acorns was observed, it is assumed that reproduction is accomplished largely by rhizomes. Fire is utilized to control the height of the shin oaks and to promote an increase in forage whereas the herbicide, 2,4,5-T, when used for three successive years, eliminates much of the shinnery.
10.2307/3669507|The social activity of tree lizards (Urosaurus ornatus) observed in an enclosure included display, push-ups, courtship, chasing, fighting, retreat and submission. After preliminary aggressive interactions, one male achieved dominance and thereafter accounted for the majority of all social activity in the group. Removing or replacing a dominant male in the group effected shifts in the dominance pattern. Dominant males were darker in color.
10.2307/3669508|Sound spectrograms have been used to compare mating calls of five of the six species previously allocated to the Hyla eximia group of treefrogs and various other species. Hyla euphorbiacea Gnther has such a different call as to cast doubts on its affinity with this group. The name H. eximia as it has been used apparently encompasses two morphologically cryptic species that differ strongly in pulse rate of the call. Only the slower-calling of these has been recorded from near the type locality. Fast-calling "eximia" from Michoacan have calls very similar to those of H. wrightorum. Whether or not the two are conspecific remains to be determined. The structure of the calls of H. squirella of the southeastern United States and the Mexican H. staufferi suggests that the affinities of these species lie with the eximia group.
10.2307/3669509|Two subspecies of the short-tailed shrew, Blarina brevicauda carolinensis and Blarina brevicauda hulophaga, have been reported from Oklahoma. Study of Oklahoman specimens reveals that all are referable to a single subspecies, B. b. carolinensis, with the later-named B. b. hulophaga as a synonym. Clinal variation in Blarina brevicauda in Oklahoma and several surrounding states is discussed, and records of the species in Oklahoma are summarized.
10.2307/3669510|The Rob and Bessie Welder Wildlife Foundation Refuge is located in the Gulf Coastal area of south-central Texas. A collection of 20,000 molluscan specimens from this refuge was found to represent 13 families, 25 genera and 35 species of Gastropoda and one family, one genus and one species of Pelecypoda. The range of Pilsbryna tridens Morrison is extended from Palo Pinto County and Planorbina gracilentus (Gould) from Hays County, Texas. Gyraulus arizonsis (Pilsbry and Ferriss) is reported from Texas for the first time. The fauna is a composite of both tropical and northern forms. The tropical element is composed mostly of species in the family Planorbidae. A key to the species collected and an annotated list are presented.
10.2307/3669511|The widespread American species called "transversa" is shown to be undescribed, while the Rocky Mountain species, subquinaria Spencer, agrees in most respects with the European transversa. Three new species of this complex are described: Drosophila falleni from Ontario to Florida to Texas to Minnesota; recens from North Dakota to Maine and Ontario; and rellima from Nebraska, Oregon and California.
10.2307/3669512|Fluctuation in numbers of Amphibia of some (but not of other) species in Central Oklahoma has been noted. Some declines have been correlated with human activity, whereas others have not. Two species of Pseudacris tend to replace one another according as periods of light and heavy rainfall occur locally. Some species have essentially maintained their numbers regardless of environmental fluctuations.
10.2307/3668940|Observations by the author and others are cited which indicate that the wild violets (Viola) are sensitive in all stages of growth to the length of the photoperiod. Studies upon latitudinal variation in flowering time are dealt with in detail. In closely related groups of species in Viola, north-south clines in photoperiod adaptation are demonstrated. These are the Viola affinis, V. sagittata, V. pedatifida, V. sororia, and V. pensylvanica groups. These species show physiological clines which parallel morphological clines found in other studies.
10.2307/3668941|A detailed study of morphological variation in mesquite (Prosopis) from 17 sites in northeastern Mexico shows a definite correlation of leaf length with secondary-leaflet size, number of pairs of primary leaflets per leaf, and number of spines per node. These morphological characters are also correlated to some extent with geographic location, with some exceptions; intermediates occur which indicate the occurrence of hybridization between the long-leaf mesquite, P. glandulosa Torr., and the short-leaf form, for which Neltuma palmeri Britt. & Rose is the only available name. The contact zone between the two kinds remains fairly static at present because of environmental pressures and/or partial isolation, the mechanisms for which are at present unknown.
10.2307/3668942|Two series of owl pellets, collected near Mathis, Texas, were analyzed. Changes in percentages of prey items from 1956 to 1959 indicate an increase in the numbers of Sigmodon hispidus. This increase caused a reduction in the use of other prey species by the owls. The foraging habits of the owls changed with an increase in food supply in the nesting area.
10.2307/3668943|Tadpoles of Scaphiopus bombifrons, studied experimentally, were found to influence each other in feeding movements, to react to chemical more than to physical stimuli from offered food materials, and to recover vigor when fed plant foods after being subjected to a nutritional deficiency, if degeneration had not progressed too far. These tadpoles rejected as food both living and dead tadpoles of a toad (Bufo compactilis speciosus Baird) sympatric with them (an unexpected and unexplained result).
10.2307/3668944|About 36,000 bands were placed on Mexican free-tailed bats, Tadarida brasiliensis mexicana from December 1955 through 1958 to clarify their patterns of movement. Four large caves in the Edwards Plateau region of Central Texas are significant in seasonal movements of the free-tailed bat to its northern range, especially to Oklahoma and New Mexico. The location of recaptures suggests that the southward migration may follow a more westerly path. Free-tail bats exchange freely between the caves of Central Texas and roost in suitable buildings both in Central Texas and on the South Texas Gulf Coast. Each of the four caves studied usually exchanged bats most frequently with the nearest foreign area (Oklahoma, New Mexico, Mexico and South Texas). Each cave was also quite individual with respect to the amount and direction of local movement that existed between it and any one of the other three study caves. In early spring and in late fall movement was not confined to Central Texas. During the summer months, at the time of birth and rearing of the young bats, the cave populations were considered stable.
10.2307/3668945|A new subspecies of Pliocercus elapoides is described from San Luis Potos, Mexico with comparisons to other Mexican forms of Pliocercus elapoides and to Pliocercus laticollaris.
10.2307/3668946|During June and July, 1959, two light traps were maintained at the University of Oklahoma Biological Station, near Lake Texoma. The traps were operated for two hours after sunset each night. Three major swarms occurred which included many different species of insects and involved two widely separated traps. These major swarms appeared at intervals of three to four weeks. This suggests that there had been a pile-up of insects and an "explosion" on the night when conditions favored dispersal. These swarms demonstrated a biotic community reacting as a whole, and occurred when weather conditions provided minimum evaporation. The swarms appeared abruptly, following nights when catches were low, and were followed by nights when catches fell to moderate, not minimal, totals. Individual species followed the same pattern as did total numbers.
10.2307/3669361|Lepisosteus osseus, Gila robusta elegans, and Cycleptus elongatus have been recovered from Pueblo Indian ruins in Chaco Canyon, Aztec, and Bandelier National Monument, respectively. All three species were probably utilized as food, but scales from Lepisosteus cf. osseus do not reveal the use to which they were put. Caudal vertebrae of Gila r. elegans and the urohyal bone of Cycleptus are diagnostic for these forms. Lepisosteus and Cycleptus are not presently known from northern New Mexico.
10.2307/3669362|Eggs of Hadropterus scierus from near Austin, Texas, are smaller and more numerous than those from near San Marcos. The increased egg diameter correlates directly with intensity of interspecific competition and correlates inversely with intraspecific competition.
10.2307/3669363|A colony of pallid bats studied in the summer of 1959 consisted of young bats and adult females. Data on sex ratios, body and organ weights, identified insect remains beneath Antrozous roosts and two ectoparasitic mites are reported.
10.2307/3669364|A brief history and status of the carnivores and ungulates of the Aransas National Wildlife Refuge, Texas is presented. Coyotes, raccoons, striped skunks, bobcats, feral hogs, javelinas, and white-tailed deer are common to abundant. Red wolves and gray fox are uncommon. Ringtailed cat, badgers, and spotted skunks are rare. Introduced fallow deer have been eliminated and introduced mule deer never became established.
10.2307/3669365|Distribution of the neotenic Eurycea in Texas is confined to the Edwards Plateau. Locality records from Williamson and Val Verde counties represent the eastern and western extremes for the distribution of these forms. The Val Verde record is a southwestern range extension for the family Plethodontidae. Distribution of the five species of Eurycea from the plateau is discussed with new locality records given representing six new counties. A key is provided for the neotenic Eurycea in Texas.
10.2307/3669366|A population of Natrix harteri is reported from the Colorado River in Coke County, Texas. Comparison with a large series of specimens from the type locality and nearby stations along the Brazos River in Palo Pinto County, Texas, indicates that the Coke County population is subspecifically distinct. The new race is named herein, and data are presented for the first time on the extent of variation in Natrix harteri based on a study of more than 200 specimens.
10.2307/3669586|Two additional specimens of Satan eurystomus Hubbs and Bailey and one additional specimen of Trogloglanis pattersoni Eigenmann are described. New evidence on relationships is also presented.
10.2307/3669587|Three new species of weevils collected in Texas are described: Endalus depressus, most closely related to Endalus laticollis Blatchley from Florida; Nanophyes vesperus, assigned to the subgenus Zeugonyx with Nanophyes sabinae (Notman); and Rhyssomatus fissilis which most closely resembles Rhyssomatus nigerrimus Fahraeus. A key to the North American species of Nanophyes is included.
10.2307/3669588|Remains of an extinct bison, presumably Bison antiquus, were found at Wichita Falls, Texas, along with bones of small bison, referred to the modern buffalo. The time range of the genus Bison in North America is discussed. Other bones found include those of turtle, prairie dog, coyote, antelope, and white-tailed deer. Typical Pleistocene species are not represented, and the deposit is considered to be of early Recent age.
10.2307/3669589|Examination of 1366 specimens of Sceloporus undulatus from Okalhoma revealed the presence of four subspecies in the state. Sceloporus undulatus erythrocheilus is restricted to the Black Mesa area of Cimarron County, S. u. garmani ranges over the prairie areas of Oklahoma, S. u. consobrinus is restricted to the southwestern corner of the state and S. u. hyacinthinus occurs in the eastern forested regions of Oklahoma. Intergradation between S. u. garmani and S. u. hyacinthinus occurs in a broad zone at the prairie-forest ecotone and S. u. garmani and S. u. consobrinus intergrade in southwest Oklahoma. No evidence of intergradation between S. u. garmani and S. u. erythrocheilus was found. The type locality of S. u. consobrinus as restricted to an area in Beckham County, Oklahoma, is too far northwest and lies in an area inhabited by S. u. garmani.
10.2307/3669590|Four new species of acalyptrate flies are described, as follows: Family Ephydridae-Scatophila iowana from Iowa; Notiphila (Agrolimna) hamifera from Arizona and Colorado; Family Chyromyiidae-Aphaniosoma frontata from California, Arizona, Utah and Baja California (Mexico); Aphaniosoma aldrichi from Texas.
10.2307/3669591|Mortality in big free-tailed bats, Tadarida molossa, led to investigations which resulted in collecting 61 of these bats, 2 spotted bats, Euderma maculatum, and other species. Bats were captured in mist nets over water. T. molossa flew at air temperatures as low as 55 F; young were generally captured earlier in the evening than adults. Individuals of this species flew at an elevation of 25 feet, singly or in groups of two or three. They flew in light rain and in less inclement weather and appeared to be attracted by captives of the same species. Euderma maculatum were captured when air temperatures were 58 and 64. The rectal temperature of a resting spotted bat approximated its environmental temperatures, and the bat became torpid at lower temperatures. Captive bats of both species died after they developed lung lesions and other pathological conditions not seen in the field. Although rabies is known in T. molossa and may have been present, the infection was not confirmed in these specimens.
10.2307/3669325|An isolated population of Lestes disjunctus australis Walker was studied in the adult stage during 2 summers by counting and observing marked and unmarked individuals at water during all daylight hours on 12 days and between 1600 and 1800 on 32 days, 9 of which were successive. Peak emergence was in early June and maximum number of mature individuals in late July. Newly-emerged adults left water for a mean of 13 dyas and were reproductive on the day of return. Mean reproductive span was 10 days, maximum 50. Recoveries of matures and of males were much higher than of tenerals and of females. In spite of an approximately 1:1 sex ratio at emergence, 86% of all individuals at water were paired and unpaired males; unpaired females were never more than 1%. Females came to water on fewer hours of any one day than males and on fewer days during their total reproductive spans. Movements of males to and from water were more complex than mass morning arrivals and late evening departures as is commonly presented for the Order. Thirty-three per cent of the males were present for the entire day, 32% left by noon but returned in the afternoon, and 7% were present in the morning only. By 0800, 72% of the males in the vicinity of the pond were at water. In the afternoon an additional group of males (20%) and 78% of the females arrived, resulting in maximum numbers and mating around 1700. These movements could not be correlated satisfactorily with temperature, light intensity, relative humidity, or wind velocity. Males visited the pond quite regularly but seldom mated. Females came more infrequently but usually mated. Because of this reciprocal relationship mean number of mating days per reproductive span in males (1.2) and females (1.7) was similar. Mean time in tandem for 81 marked individuals was 60.2 minutes. Duration of actual copulo was 6-19 minutes. Moderate sector localization occurred. Intraspecific interactions between males were infrequent and each male usually maintained a single Eleocharis stem by passive occupancy. Brief notes were recorded on distance from water, under-water oviposition, predation, and feeding.
10.2307/3669326|The social behavior of a group of 19 canyon lizards, Sceloporus merriami, was observed in a large enclosure. The pattern of movements and the cadence of these movements in the display sequence are species-specific. The dominant male is responsible for the majority of aggressive actions such as displaying, courting, fighting, and chasing in the group. Subordination is indicated by retreat, submission and reduced activity. Dominance was shared by two males, and when they were removed a new dominant male arose and maintained his dominance when the previous dominants were returned. A courting male nods rapidly while following a female and attempts to get a biting grip on the skin of her shoulder region to effect copulation. One observation suggests that the female may sometimes initiate courtship and mating.
10.2307/3669327|Dental characteristics were used as criteria of four relative age classes of Dipodomys ordi richardsoni. Weights used as age criteria permitted less detailed age classifications. Adults with teeth in advanced stages of wear termed "old adult" ranged in weight from 55 to 96 grams. Teeth were worn to the old adult condition at the estimated age of ten months. The greatest age of individuals live-trapped in the field was estimated at 34 months. Rats caught outside of natal burrows but lacking adult teeth weighed from 24 to 70 grams. Weights of 55, 60 and 65 grams were points arbitrarily convenient for separating adult from immature animals. Variations in adult mean weights were associated with population density, drought, food supply, age composition of the population and stage of the breeding cycle. Degrees of grazing and non-grazing of the habitat by cattle were not reflected in mean weight differences of kangaroo rats.
10.2307/3669328|The growth and development of Mexican free-tailed bats, Tadarida brasiliensis mexicana (Saussure), is described from about 25 days before birth until young bats are indistinguishable from adults. Young bats have gained a grey pelage and an adult-like dentition, forearm length and body weight by six weeks of age, when they first fly from the nursery caves. Upon first flying a loss in the weight of the body and of the adrenals is observed. This weight loss is not regained until young bats are about 11 or 12 weeks of age.
10.2307/3669329|The phenotype ratio obtained from crosses between green-striped cricket frogs (Acris crepitans) shows that the presence or absence of the green vertebral stripe is determined by a pair of alleles in which the gene for green stripe is dominant.
10.2307/3669330|Tadpoles of Scaphiopus bombifrons were studied during the summer of 1958 to determine the rate of development and the time of metamorphosis in a natural habitat on the high plains of west Texas. Development is rapid with transformation usually occurring when the larvae attain a body length of 40 to 56 millimeters and are 15 to 20 days of age.
10.2307/3669331|The vegetation of the basin of Lake Chicot, originally cypress-tupelo gum swamp bordered by upland hardwood forest, was studied by Penfound following impoundment. This paper gives results of a re-examination of the same area. After eighteen years of flooding, cypress has decreased in density in the channel but has increased in the shallow peripheral zone. Radial growth of cypress trees has not decreased, even in the deepest water. Upland forest trees have all died; a few bottomland hardwoods survive in shallow water. The lake is presently dominated by submerged weedy aquatics, especially cabomba and elodea. Winter draw-down of the lake level has not solved the aquatic weed problem.
10.2307/3669439|Key, descriptions, and notes on distribution and ecology are given for the ten species of Croton in this area of 41,000 square miles, where crotons are vegetationally important. No new taxa or names are published.
10.2307/3669440|The deciduous species of Tamarix which has spread so aggressively in the Southwest after introduction from the Old World is now usually referred to Tamarix pentandra Pallas. There is considerable confusion as to the relation of these shrubs to the flora of the Old World. To help clarify this uncertainty, specimens collected in Arizona have been described in detail. The American species is similar to the Russian T. ramosissima Ledeb. as described by Gorschkova, but does not relate to any species or form listed for Israel by Zohary.
10.2307/3669441|Keys, discussions, and distributions are given for the taxa of Stylosanthinae, tribe Hedysareae, of the papilionaceous Leguminosae which occur in Central America and Mexico. Four genera and 23 species are included in the study.
10.2307/3669442|The Weberian apparatus of Hybognathus placitus is described and compared with that of H. nuchalis. Although considerable variation in the Weberian components was observed, the many differences indicate that full specific rank should be retained for both Hybognathus placitus and H. nuchalis. The lateral processes of the first and second vertebrae are regarded as modified ventral ribs. The ascending processes of the scaphium and intercalarium are believed to be homologous to postzygapophyses. The pit into which the articulating process of the scaphium fits is regarded as homologous to those accommodating the third neural pedicle and fourth neutral arch. The neural complex is probably composed of the third neural spine plus interspinous bones. The os suspensorium is part of the fourth pleural rib. The most conspicuous difference between these species involves the shape of the pharyngeal process of the basioccipital and the muscles inserted on it.
10.2307/3669443|Records are given for 18 species of land molluscs from north-central and central New Mexico. Very few species were taken below an elevation of 7500 feet, which is roughly the lower level of the yellow-pine community, except in locally mesic habitats. More individuals and species occur between 7500 and 10,000 (or perhaps 10,500) feet than at other elevations. At this altitude, conditions are mesic and snails are found in association with aspens and, to a lesser extent, with spruces and firs. Lack of moisture at low elevations is certainly an important factor determining the lower limit of range. The factor or factors that determine the upper limit of range in elevation are difficult to detect. For a number of species, however, it is probable that, in the absence of suitable food and shelter afforded by tree litter and woody debris, the snails are unable to establish populations above the elevations at which aspens grow well and a relatively closed spruce-fir forest occurs.
10.2307/3669444|A new subspecies of Mormoops megalophylla is described from northwestern Mexico. Distributional and/or biological data are given for 15 other species of Central American bats most of which are rare, at least in collections. Included are representatives of the genera Micronycteris, Tonatia, Phyllostomus, Trachops, Hylonycteris, Carollia, Artibeus, Natalus, Myotis, Pipistrellus, Lasiurus and Plecotus.
10.2307/3668833|This is the first paper in a series which undertakes a detailed analysis of the cephalic and appendicular skeletal components of the primarily American suckers. The skull of the blue sucker is wholly dissimilar to that of any other catostomid. It is very compact and small in relation to the rest of the body. Its various articulations, sutures, cartilaginous elements, tendons, ligaments, muscle origins and insertions and nerve foramina are delineated. All of the elements usually present in minnows and other suckers are present but most are peculiar to this genus. Numerous tendons and ligaments, heretofore unknown, are described; many of them are thought to be homologous to those in other fishes with protractile mouths. The catostomid branchial apparatus is highly modified for food concentration. Every element is illustrated.
10.2307/3668834|Keys, descriptions, and notes on nomenclature, ecology, and distribution are provided for the four taxa of Argythamnia in the trans-Pecos and adjacent counties of western Texas. Three species, one of them with two varieties, are recognized in this region. No new names or taxa are published.
10.2307/3668838|Sixty-eight, ungrazed grassland stands were examined for species composition and certain edaphic factors. Results indicate a relatively homogeneous tall-grass prairie with the major grasses being Andropogon gerardi, A. scoparius, Sorghastrum nutans, and Panicum virgatum. No correlation could be found between species composition and pH, water-retaining capacity, geographic location or the geologic substrate.
10.2307/3668839|A new species of Bouteloua, B. warnockii, is described from plants of western Texas, southern New Mexico, and northern Mexico. This grass has been confused with B. curtipendula (Michx.) Torr. with which it commonly is associated, and appears to be one of the ancestral types from which the latter has been derived. Bouteloua warnockii shows closest affinities to the relatively rare Caribbean species, B. vaneedenii Pilg. The type plant of the new taxon had a chromosome number of 2n=25 and another plant of the same population had 2n=22 chromosomes.
10.2307/3668840|Keys, descriptions, and notes on nomenclature, distribution and ecology are given for the four species of Acalypha (Angiospermae: Dicotyledonae) occurring in the trans-Pecos and adjacent counties of extreme western Texas. No new names or taxa are included.
10.2307/3668841|Male Pachydiplax longipennis show territorial behavior which is expressed by displacement of conspecific males from a defended area about a perch site. The behavior is characterized by a threat display given on the perch site as well as in flight. Adult male recognition is achieved in part by the bluishwhite pruinescence on the male's abdominal surface. Female recognition is made in part by the series of yellow spots on the dark background of the abdominal surface. Teneral males, apparently due to their immature color pattern which is similar to that of the female, are recognized as females by mature males. No male courtship was observed. All breeding and oviposition occurs in the territory and the male guards the female while she is ovipositing.
10.2307/3668842|Observations were made on egg sac construction by Peucetia viridans (Hentz). This usually began between 11 P.M. and 4 A.M. and lasted approximately five hours. First, a horizontal disk was made. A bowl with an opening in the bottom was constructed under this disk. The eggs were then forced upward into the bowl, the opening closed, and the egg sac was completed.
10.2307/3668843|Two new species of Mexican weevils of the genus Anthonomus are described: A. bifidus, related to A. incanus Champion and A. albopilosus Dietz; and A. singularis, related to A. aeneolus Dietz. Anthonomus solarii Champion, A. unipustulatus Champion and A. xanthoxyli Linell are reported for the first time from Mexico. Noteworthy taxonomic and distributional records are presented for five additional species.
10.2307/3668844|The systematics and zoogeography of the seven species of Phyllodactylus inhabitating northeastern South America, and the Greater and Lesser Antilles are discussed. One new species, P. underwoodi, is described from the Lesser Antilles (Grenada). Natural history notes are included wherever applicable. Photographs of the holotypes of P. pulcher and P. ventralis are presented for the first time. A distribution map of and key to the species julieni, martini, pulcher, rutteni, underwoodi, ventralis and wirshingi are included.
10.2307/3668845|The relationship based on skull morphology of populations known as Canis latrans and C. niger in Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Texas is considered. Available evidence indicates that C. niger has become extinct except in isolated areas of Louisiana. Elsewhere, C. latrans has replaced C. niger as a primary predator. Probable previous hybridization between C. latrans and C. niger is discussed.
10.2307/3668846|Information regarding the rare and little known desert shrew. Notiosorex crawfordi, was obtained from 20 animals collected in Arizona, captive animals observed for 287 days, and from observations made by other writers. Desert shrews live in arid regions and build small, bird-like nests under surface debris or large plants. Well-defined runways are not constructed, but abandoned ones of other small mammals may be used. Feces are deposited at conspicuous "stations" several feet from the nest. Desert shrews seem to be more sociable than other shrews. Three to five young are born in early or late summer, are helpless and hairless at birth, and by the 40th day are nearly 90 per cent grown. At an estimated 50 to 90 days of age, they are adult-size. Two caged animals lived for 40 weeks without water and were fed only freshly-killed sparrows. Desert shrews probably eat most kinds of insects if the exoskeleton can be pierced. Lateral skin glands are well developed in males, being as large or larger than in any shrews of comparable size.
10.2307/3668847|Fifty-four species of birds collected or observed in the vicinity of La Pesca (7 miles west), Tamaulipas are listed herein. The birds of the coastal plain of Tamaulipas have been little studied; consequently, this report includes new records for the area. Specimens obtained are preserved in The Museum at Michigan State University.
10.2307/3668848|Observations on sixteen species of birds are reported. Fourteen of these constitute recent additions to the list of birds recorded from the Wichita Mountains Wildlife Refuge. Four of the latter also constitute easternmost occurrences in Oklahoma of western species. One new species was observed in nesting activity.
10.2307/3669421|Arising from the phellogen in both the perennial stems and the large storage roots of C. foetidissima, C. digitata, C. palmata and Apodanthera undulata is a comparatively thick periderm consisting of a partially suberized phellem and an unsuberized phelloderm. In general the periderm on the roots is considerably thicker than that on the perennial stems and the phellem is thicker than the phelloderm on both root and stem. It is suggested that the periderm aids in the retention of water, making it possible for plants with this type of root system to survive long periods of drought. Undoubtedly characteristics other than periderm also play an important role in the drought resistance of plants.
10.2307/3669422|Thirty different populational sites of Guara were examined in road-side habitats of central Texas to determine the degree of sympatry of the six species native to the region. Sixteen of these sites contained at least two species of Guara. Five sites were found to have 3 species growing together, while the presence of 4 species was noted in only one locality. G. villosa var. parksii was found to be restricted to sandy soils, while the remainder of the species occurred in various soils. No evidence of hybridization was found in the populations studied, although in one population the absence of hybridization could not be demonstrated with certainty.
10.2307/3669423|Keys, descriptions, and notes on ecology and distribution are given for the species of Reverchonia and Phyllanthus occurring in the Trans-Pecos and adjacent counties of western Texas including Reverchonia arenaria, Phyllanthus abnormis, P. polygonoides, and P. ericoides, the latter not having been reported to occur in the United States. No new names or combinations are published.
10.2307/3669424|Seven specimens of Neoteneriffiola uta Tibbettts are reported from Pampa, Texas, making the first record of this family of mites from Texas and only the second record from the United States. New taxonomic characters are introduced, the family diagnosis is revised, and the five genera and six species are keyed.
10.2307/3669425|Egg production by mated females of Streptocephalus seali, S. texanus, Branchinecta lindahli, and Eubranchipus serratus was studied in the laboratory. After sexual maturity was attained egg production was continued throughout the female's life. Clutches were usually deposited at intervals of one to three days, and each clutch required a separate copulation for fertilization. Unfertilized clutches were reabsorbed in the egg sac. In all species initial clutches contained few eggs. The number of eggs per clutch increased with age and size of the parents.
10.2307/3669426|A study of Triatoma (Hemiptera, Reduviidae) has been made in the wood rat (Neotoma micropus) dens in Cameron County, Texas. Species taken include T. sanguisuga, T. gerstaeckeri and T. neotomae. Of 390 Triatoma examined for infection with Trypanosoma cruzi, the causative organism of Chagas disease, 161 were found to harbor the trypanosomes in their dejecta.
10.2307/3669549|Demographic aspects, reproductive activity, and behavior of single males of a population of Enallagma civile Hagen were studied. Marked and unmarked individuals at water were observed and counted near noon on 32 consecutive days and also hourly between 0700 and 1700 on three days. Behavioral activity for 15 unpaired males, each constantly observed for 30 minutes, and for 58 pairs, seven of which were observed constantly from seizure until the female left the pond, is presented. Total number at water fluctuated greatly early in the season, reached a peak of 214 on 26 July, and decreased thereafter. Males constituted 82% of all records at water. Mean minimum reproductive age for males was 3.5 days, for females 3.1. Total number at water and maximum pairing were both near noon. Males were at water on 62% of the days lived, females on 39%. Males mated on 14% of their days at water; females on 79%. Most individuals left water in the late afternoon regardless of population pressure, and these routine departures are considered an important mechanism of dispersal. There was no courtship or display by either sex. Flight of the female was not required for the male's approach. Males recognized both kind and sex. Mean time in copulo was 18.7 minutes. Ovipositing was primarily in adventitious willow roots floating just beneath the surface. It nearly always consisted of three sequential phases: (1) exploratory and surface ovipositing (34 minutes) with no more than the abdomen of the female in water, (2) underwater ovipositing (12 minutes) when the female was completely submerged and the male guarded the site, (3) terminal activity when the female emerged and either escaped to shore or was captured and held in tandem briefly, usually by her mate. The male was the active partner in seizure and copulation, but the female controlled ovipositing activity. Twelve pairs were unsuccessful in copulation or oviposition, probably because the female had mated successfully earlier in the day. Unsuccessful mating was frequently accompanied by biting and a distinctive zigzag flight prior to separation. Localization was slight and crowding often occurred, but a single male was seldom displaced from his stem. Males maintained their perches by two aggressive activities, flights toward intruders and wing warnings which warded off 84% of the intruders. These activities were not sexual since they occurred in the absence of females and attempted intermale mating was not observed. The site previously defended by the unpaired male was not subsequently utilized in copulation and oviposition so that the single male's defense activity was not significant in providing reproductive sites.
10.2307/3669550|In contrast to previous reports in the literature, my experiments indicate that gophers (Geomys bursarius) have considerable swimming ability. This fact is important in a consideration of distribution barriers, dispersal, and gene flow in gopher populations.
10.2307/3669551|Recent field work and collections of Coahuilan box turtles, Terrapene coahuila, provide data on the natural history of the species, which is confined to the intermontane basin of Cuatro Cinegas, central Coahuila, Mxico. Some descriptive comments and the first photographs of the species are included. Box turtles are omnivorous and aquatic to semiaquatic in streams, ponds, and marshes; most turtles were obtained in marshes. The geographic range of T. coahuila, as determined by the extent of aquatic habitats, probably covers 300 square miles.
10.2307/3669552|Keys, descriptions, and notes on nomenclature, ecology, and distribution are given for Stillingia Treculiana, S. sylvatica, and S. texana of the trans-Pecos and adjacent counties. No new names or taxa are published.
10.2307/3669203|An inclusive study of the composite genus Bartlettia is presented, based on all known specimens of the taxon. An illustration and map showing distribution are included.
10.2307/3669204|Keys, descriptions, and notes on nomenclature, ecology, and distribution are given for Cnidoscolus texanus, Jatropha dioica (with two varieties), and J. macrorhiza of the trans-Pecos and adjacent counties. No new names or taxa are published.
10.2307/3669205|Bayou Lacombe is a stream 36 miles long located in St. Tammany Parish, Louisiana. A section of it was dredged in 1952 to facilitate drainage. At the headwaters during periods of flooding it resembles a swampy slough. In the section which was dredged the stream is relatively fast flowing with a sandy bottom; below this it takes on the characteristics of a coastal bayou. The stream is naturally acid with pH determinations as low as 5.2. This acidity is due to the presence of free CO<sub>2</sub> and the organic acid which accumulates at the upper regions of the stream. No carbonate alkalinity is present. Bicarbonate alkalinity is present in only limited quantities with the lowest concentrations in the upper regions of the stream. The lower stations show signs of being affected by tidal waters from Lake Pontchartrain, into which the bayou flows. The chemical and physical conditions of the stream are affected by the volume of water present and this in turn is controlled by rainfall. Present physical and chemical conditions more closely resemble those reported immediately after the dredging than those prior to it. However, the similarity in the number and types of organisms collected in 1957-1958 and those collected prior to the disturbance indicates a considerable degree of recovery.
10.2307/3669206|Freshly fertilized eggs of the two species were maintained under a range of temperatures. The minimum and maximum temperatures at which early embryogenesis proceeds were approximated, these being 18-30C for several B. valliceps populations and 8 (?)-27C for one P. streckeri population.
10.2307/3669207|Discovery of a left mandible of the Pleistocene giant beaver Castoroides ohioensis Foster in St. Frances County, Arkansas, is the second record for the state and extends the known southern distribution. The mandible, in good condition with complete dental series, is described in detail and illustrated.
10.2307/3669208|Gambusia krumholzi is described on the basis of morphic and pigmentary characteristics. The new species is thought to be most closely related to G. nobilis (Baird and Girard) and is compared with that species and with G. heterochir Hubbs. G. krumholzi is known only from the type locality, Ro de Nava, near Nava, Coahuila, Mxico.
10.2307/3669209|Three new species of Texas weevils of the family Curculionidae are described: Cercopeus bolli, Lixellus haldemani, and Pnigodes belfragei. Nomenclatural notes on the genus Lixellus and a key to the species of Pnigodes are included. Additional notes are presented for a few other Texas weevils.
10.2307/3669629|There are 66 species reported, including 5 not previously recorded in the United States, 3 new species, Puccinia chisosensis on Piptochaetium fimbriatum, P. scleropogonis on Scleropogon brevifolius, and Uromyces bravensis on Sporobolus pyramidatus, and one new variety, Puccinia pygmaea var. chisosana on Bromus anomalus.
10.2307/3669630|Thirty-seven species of Agaricaceae, four of the Boletaceae, and two of the Clavariaceae from the Mogollon Rim in central Arizona, are reported.
10.2307/3669631|Observations are reported on mortality and injury in populations of Phoradendron californicum Nutt., P. coryae Trel., and P. macrophyllum (Engelm.) Cockerell presumably due to low temperatures during January 1962. In P. californicum the entire plant, including the endophytic system, was killed over a wide area in southern Arizona. Cold injury to P. coryae and P. macrophyllum was not lethal to entire populations, but considerable damage was detected. The critical temperature that results in tissue destruction to P. californicum appears to be in the vicinity of 10F to 13F. Occasional relatively low temperatures seem to be the primary factor governing the northern distribution of these and related species of Phoradendron.
10.2307/3669632|Information accumulated in the last 20 years shows that the distribution of the monotypic genus Emorya is highly restricted and lies entirely south of the Rio Grande. Previous reports of its occurrence in Texas are not considered credible. A full description and information on ecological preferences are given for the first time.
10.2307/3669633|Parental relations and the behavior of juvenile kangaroo rats, born and reared in captivity under identical situations, were observed in two sympatric species. A rather generalized species, Dipodomys merriami was compared with a highly specialized form, D. deserti, in order to observe ethological differences. Various comparisons are made with respect to parturition; maternal and paternal behavior; nest building; care of young, such as nursing, carrying, retrieving, training, weaning; and the behavior of the young. It is suggested that behavior patterns of kangaroo rats are species-specific.
10.2307/3669634|This is the first of 3 reports on 4 herpetological collections made in Mxico in 1951, 1954, 1957 and 1958 and concerns only 3 taxa of turtles and 23 taxa of snakes. Seven taxa are added to the known herpetofauna of Nuevo Len.
10.2307/3669635|Food use, breeding and non-breeding behavior, and scales of this fresh-water fish were studied. These fish are sedentary bottom-dwellers, preferring quiet waters. They are omnivorous, preferring small arthropod larvae. They school in the daytime but not at night or during breeding periods. During the summer, the male chooses the nest site under bottom debris such as stone or wood. He enlarges a burrow and defends it before and after spawning. Details of behavior and scaleform are given.
10.2307/3669636|This species is described from Estelline Salt Spring, Estelline, Hall County, in the Panhandle. It is very much like H. oregonensis of the Pacific coast but differs in a number of morphic characteristics. The remarkable nature of the occurrence of crabs of this marine genus 500 miles inland in an arid area is pointed out, as is the probability that the new species is probably already extinct.
10.2307/3669097|Long-standing ignorance of these plumages is pointed out. Attempts to remedy the situation are recounted. Information on the plumages of this species (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) is given. They are compared with those of T. cupido pinnatus.
10.2307/3669098|Thermal tolerances were determined for 3 species of Gambusia under standardized conditions. Females of all were more tolerant of heat than males. Neither size nor gravidity influenced thermal tolerance, but fry of G. affinis were remarkably tolerant to high temperatures. Adaptation to the local habitat temperatures was found in G. affinis. The 3 species of Gambusia are well adapted to the contrasting thermal characteristics of their habitats.
10.2307/3669099|An altitudinal cline in body size is described. Frogs from higher elevations are larger than those from prairie populations. Oxygen consumption per unit of body weight is shown to be inversely related to size. The ecological relationships of these two parameters and their possible adaptive significance are discussed.
10.2307/3669100|Chromosome counts for 108 collections are reported. These include 70 taxa, representing 43 genera. Counts of about 50 species are reported for the first time including the following genera: Centratherum (x = 16), Alomia (x = 10), Clibadium (x = 16), Notoptera (x = 16) and Eleutheranthera (x = 15 or 16). Interesting specific counts include those of Eupatorium guadalupense (n = 4), Eupatorium longipes (n = 9), and Viguiera tenuis (x = 12). A remarkable aneuploid series has been revealed in Wedelia (x = 11, 12, 15, 20, 22, 23, 25 and ca. 30). When appropriate the chromosomal information has been related to systematic problems.
10.2307/3668783|Larrea divaricata Cav. is at a northern limit of its range in Yucca Flat, and occurs here in local aggregations chiefly on the middle slopes of the basin. Measurement of temperature along a gradient of elevation during a 7-month period from December to July recorded the repeated presence of a nocturnal temperature inversion due to cold air drainage into the basin. Larrea is essentially lacking in the cold-air "lake," but also fails to occupy completely some sectors of the gradient where the temperature regime appears to be favorable.
10.2307/3668784|The occurrences of Dipodomys microps and D. merriami in a small area of the Nevada Test Site were examined. The abundance of D. microps varies inversely with the abundance of Bromus rubens. Reynolds' hypothesis that dense grass interferes with escape from predators is reconsidered in terms of grass density and size of rodent.
10.2307/3668785|The Parras pupfish, Cyprinodon latifasciatus Garman, is part of the distinctive assemblage of relict species of the Chihuahuan Desert in Coahuila, Mexico. Previously unfigured and known solely from the types, the distinctive features of this now extinct species have not been appreciated. Its diagnostic characters (including life colors), variation, associates and relationships are discussed, and a lectotype is designated.
10.2307/3668786|Twenty nine collections of the anostracan branchiopod, Thamnocephalus, are listed and the geographic distribution of 2 forms of the males is shown. The morphology of the male frontal appendage and its variations are described. It is concluded that 2 species of Thamnocephalus must be recognized: T. platyurus Packard 1877 and T. mexicanus Linder 1941.
10.2307/3668787|The presently available, rather skimpy knowledge of these birds (Tribe Dendrocygnini) is reviewed. Their recent expansion of range in southern Texas is pointed out. New information on behavior and nesting is presented. Two general types of nests are discerned: cavity nests in trees and ground nests. The adaptational amplitude and good brood survival of the birds should bespeak great success in breeding, but the heavy predation and the still unexplained trait of dumpnesting limit the population.
10.2307/3668788|The occurrence of both Ammospermophilus leucurus cinnamomeus and A. l. pennipes in western Colorado is substantiated on the basis of the smaller average cranial measurements and more vinaceous pelage of cinnamomeus. These subspecies are ecologically segregated in Colorado; pennipes living in the river valleys below 5500 feet in the Sarcobatus-Atriplex-Artemisia plant association and cinnamomeus in the Pinyon-Juniper forests at elevations above 5500 feet.
10.2307/3668789|Turkey (Meleagris gallopavo intermedia) history on the Wichita Mountains Wildlife Refuge in Southwestern Oklahoma is outlined. Population in relation to rainfall is discussed. Higher than average May-June rainfall appears detrimental to poult survival.
10.2307/3668790|No new names or taxa are included in the check list of 75 species.
10.2307/3669567|Two plant communities, the half-shrub association and the short-grass association, were analyzed monthly to relate lesser prairie chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) use to seasonal changes in plant composition. Of the 6 months during which plants were important food items, prairie chickens used the half-shrub association for feeding 5 months and the shortgrass community for 1 month. The use apparently was associated with the seasonal occurrence of several plants in these communities.
10.2307/3669568|This paper demonstrates methods for detailed acoustical analysis of vocalizations of animals by means of the sound spectrograph and points out pitfalls and difficulties likely to be encountered. Special attention is given to bird voices because of their complicated nature and a general theory of bird voice is discussed sufficiently to indicate the basis for interpretation of the analysis. A list of specialized terms and definitions is included.
10.2307/3669569|Dipodomys elator has proved one of the most elusive of American mammals. The species seems confined to 6 counties in north-central Texas and southern Oklahoma. It occupies mesquite scrubland, where other kinds of kangaroo rats would not be expected to occur. The nearest relative of D. elator seems to be D. ornatus of the central Mexican plateau, another rare species. These 2 species should be grouped together in an elator group. It is possible that other kinds of kangaroo rats of this group remain to be discovered in Texas and Mexico.
10.2307/3669570|A stand of Vauquelinia pauciflora Standl., a small evergreen tree previously unrecorded from the United States, has been observed in the extreme southeastern corner of Arizona. It is believed that this species has been confused in the literature with V. californica (Torr.) Sarg., which does not extend this far east. The type locality for V. pauciflora may be in Arizona and not Sonora.
10.2307/3669571|Myxomycetes which sporulate on bark in moist chamber very soon after the bark is wet, are usually among those whose plasmodia are of the aphanoplasmodium or protoplasmodium types. The theory is advanced that, in nature, aphanoplasmodia sclerotize on the bark during dry periods, forming microcysts, as they do in agar culture. If bark bearing microcysts is placed in moist chamber, the cysts rehydrate and coalesce into plasmodia which, under certain conditions, proceed to sporulate immediately.
10.2307/3669572|The spore-to-spore cultivation on artificial media of 3 species of Myxomycetes: Comatricha laxa, Perichaena depressa, and Licea biforis, is reported for the first time. No species of the 3 genera represented has hitherto been induced to complete its life cycle in agar culture.
10.2307/3669573|A listing is given of the microscopic algal flora obtained from 71 soil collections made in Central, North, and West Texas. Consideration is given to the ubiquity of certain genera and to the difficulty encountered in attempting a determination of the specific taxonomic disposition of isolates of these genera.
10.2307/3669574|A key, partial synonymy, and information on distribution are given. Asclepias bifida and A. prostrata are described as new, the former from the highlands of Nuevo Leon, the latter from near the coast of Tamaulipas.
10.2307/3669575|Bud-bursting within 18 populations of Prosopis was compared under experimental garden conditions at Austin, Texas during 1962-64. Time of bud-bursting was correlated with latitude of origin in P. glandulosa var. glandulosa, Oklahoma and northwestern Texas populations being latest in bud-bursting and southern Texas and Mexico populations earliest. Three populations of P. glandulosa var. torreyana from Trans-Pecos Texas, New Mexico and Arizona were uniformly late in bud-bursting, but a small Coahuila population was earlier. Five Mexican populations of P. laevigata gave varied responses: A northern, coastal population was early in bud-bursting, 2 southern, higher altitude populations were later, and 2 other southern populations because of greater frost intolerance were latest. A population of P. juliflora was uniformly least frost resistant and had latest spring activity from buds below the ground surface. Ecotypic differentiation in timing of bud activity was correlated with fall dormancy patterning and is of selective significance in the range of habitats occupied by Prosopis.
10.2307/3669576|Thirteen of the 20 species of Baccharis known in the United States are found in the 3 states considered, 4 in Oklahoma, 7 in New Mexico and 11 in Texas. Three previously reported species are excluded. B. neglecta is recharacterized and adequately differentiated from the related B. angustifolia. B. Bigelovii is redefined, partially by the removal of a discordant element from Asa Gray's original composite concept. The study includes keys, descriptions, synonymy and range-statements with counties listed for widespread species, or specimen-citations for less common ones.
10.2307/3669689|The genus is composed of 3 species each of which is confined to a separate continent: A. africana (in Africa); A. edgeworthii (in Asia); and A. bracteata (in North America). The latter, widespread species is treated as a polymorphic group without infraspecific categories. Amphicarpaea with a basic chromosome number of x = 10 is most closely related to the genus Cologania (x = 11). A descriptive account of the species is given along with complete synonymy and additional comments of a systematic nature. No new names or taxa are published.
10.2307/3669690|Field studies in north-central and eastern Texas and examination of herbarium vouchers from that area substantiated a garden study of vegetative characteristics of transplanted clones of Andropogon scoparius Michx., Andropogon gerardi Vitman, Sorghastrum nutans (L.) Nash, and Panicum virgatum L. Plants in these taxa in the pine forests of eastern Texas were extremely pubescent and non-glaucous. Proceeding westward to central Texas, the plants were less pubescent and this pubescence was replaced by glaucousness in the plants of the open woodlands and grassland of central Texas. Clonal segments of the grasses grown in 3 soils in a greenhouse, under high light intensity, were not altered in the degree of pubescence and glaucousness. Under low light intensity, clonal segments were slightly altered in glaucousness, but not in pubescence.
10.2307/3669691|Mature salt glands in Tamarix pentandra Pall. are distinct structures composed of two highly vacuolate and six less vacuolate cells. A large nucleus and abundant granular cytoplasm are present in each of the six partially vacuolate cells. A single pore extends from within each salt gland to the surface of the cuticular layer. Salt glands are initiated and often developed to the eight-celled structure similar to matured salt glands when within promeristem of the shoot. The glands are located predominately on the abaxial leaf surfaces and on very young stems. A few glands occur on the adaxial leaf surfaces. Epidermal cells surrounding guard cells of stomata are relatively thin walled, while epidermal cells around cap cells of salt glands have distinctive thickenings. A rosette of epidermal cells surrounds each salt gland. Palisade parenchyma tissue directly beneath each salt gland has less intercellular space and generally contains more chloroplasts than adjacent parenchyma tissue.
10.2307/3669692|Chromosome counts of n = 17 for 7 species and 1 hybrid are reported for the first time. These include the following: Vernonia texana, V. greggii, V. lindheimeri, V. guadalupensis, V. marginata, V. interior, V. angustifolia and V. acaulis. Previously reported chromosome counts are summarized and speculations are made as to the consistency of chromosome numbers in other subsections of Lepidoploa. Both aneuploidy and amphidiploidy are recognized as possible origins of the number n = 17.
10.2307/3669693|The fishes Crenichthys baileyi or C. nevadae are found abundant in warm springs in eastern Nevada. None of the springs cooler than 20C had either species, and all 21-37C within the appropriate drainages had one. Most of the spring-boils had low quantities of dissolved oxygen, never exceeding 4 ppm. Individuals of C. baileyi were observed to remain without show of distress in a 31.3C spring with 1.6 ppm. oxygen. Individuals of C. nevadae seemed equally able to tolerate 0.9 ppm oxygen at 37.3C and 0.5 ppm at 32.3C. The resistance to the combined stresses may enhance the survival of both threatened species as well as Moapa coriacea.
10.2307/3669694|Exotic fishes that may compete with local endemics in the desert Southwest have recently been introduced into springs in southern Nevada. One species, Cichlasoma severum, not previously recorded in the United States, is added to the list of introduced Nevada fishes. Three species, Mollienesia latipinna, M. mexicana, and C. nigrofasciatum, are shown to have been moved more than 80 miles within 15 months.
10.2307/3669695|Of 225 January-to-May records of Perognathus amplus from the Southwest 97.3 per cent are males. All specimens of apache taken in April, the only month for which we have records, are males. For the remaining species--longimembris, flavus, penicillatus, intermedius--during the first 5 months of January through May, more males than females are taken (59.4, 67.5, 73.7, 71.5 per cent, respectively), but the ratio is less unbalanced than for the species P. amplus and P. apache.
10.2307/3669696|This paper presents detailed acoustical analyses of vocalizations of six species of Spizella. All species show similar general characteristics of voice. All have distinctive vocalizations readily identifiable by analysis. All individuals use phrases different from those of other individuals.
10.2307/3669697|A population of Enallagma praevarum in the Chiricahua Mountains of southeastern Arizona was studied in July, 1963, by a capture-recapture analysis. The study was designed to compare mating expectancies for each sex to the sex ratio of the population. The daily survival-rates were 0.80 and 0.82 corresponding to average life expectancies of 5.0 and 5.5 days for males and females respectively. Similarity of the values suggest that individuals of one sex could not mate more frequently than individuals of the opposite sex by virture of greater longevity. Relative mating expectancies (the number of matings for individuals of each sex during their average life expectancies) were estimated by determining the number of different males and females contributing to 251 successful matings. The estimates were approximately 3 and 2 for males and females respectively. Females were in greater abundance in larvae and adults in addition to the sample of actual breeders. This female preponderance is offset by a greater mating expectancy among males. The sex ratio is therefore suggested as a function of mating expectancies.
10.2307/3669379|A Checklist of the Texas species of Cryptocephalus (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae), including a new species, C. reinhardi, is provided. This checklist increases the number of species and subspecies known to occur in Texas from 19 to 31. Locality and host-plant records are given.
10.2307/3669380|A new species of the limatulus setosus group, Endalus pumilis, is described for Texas. The female of Endalus celatus Burke, a species previously known only from a male, is described.
10.2307/3669381|A previously unknown mimetic assemblage of the cerambycid Elytroleptus rufipennis (LeConte) and an undescribed lycid species was found on Quercus near Soyalo, central Chipas, Mexico. The behavioral differences between the lycid and its sibling are emphasized as possibly being significant in regard to predator relationships.
10.2307/3669382|Seventy-seven spiny pocket mice, Liomys irroratus texensis trapped in Cameron County, Texas have been examined for ectoparasites. Little is known of the parasites of this rodent. The 18 species of mites, 2 of ticks and 2 of sucking lice which were found are listed.
10.2307/3669383|Studies were carried out in the state one year. The reproductive season is about 9 months. The cocoon is described and illustrated. The data are compared with data previously available about the species in Michigan and Illinois.
10.2307/3669384|The behavior of six of the seven species of Phrynosoma found in the United States was studied. Most of the behavior patterns typical of iguanids are lacking in this genus. Analysis of display-action-pattern graphs is presented. These show a gradual decrease in display complexity from primitive to more recent forms. A hypothesis is presented to account for the loss of the display.
10.2307/3669385|The Massasaugas of Colorado appear to be a disjunct population centering around Kiowa County in southeastern Colorado. This population is remarkably constant in pattern and counts; but is intermediate between the races which occur to the east and southwest. It is suggested that it be referred to Sistrurus catenatus edwardsi/tergeminus.
10.2307/3669386|Twenty species are reported. Collection of Gymnosporangium gracile on Juniperus spp. and Puccinia enceliae are new to the U.S. Aecial stages are reported for Puccinia canaliculata on Englemannia pinnatifida, for P. scleropogonis on Chamaesaracha conioides, and for P. versicolor on Lantana macropoda. Uromyces bravensis Cumm. becomes a synonym of U. sporobolicola Lindq.
10.2307/3669387|Diatoms not previously reported to occur in Kansas are listed, including 27 species of 5 genera, one of the species with 2 varieties.
10.2307/3669388|A study of the shortleaf pine was conducted along its western periphery of range in Oklahoma. A mixed pine-oak stand located in Bryan Co. was selected for sampling. Data on composition, age, growth, and stand history were obtained. Some of these data, as well as a map of the Oklahoma distribution of Pinus echinata, are presented. Data from this stand are not significantly different from data of comparable stands farther east. It is speculated that fires and selective cutting have favored persistence of this species in this peripheral stand.
10.2307/3669389|Examination of over 50,000 stomata of 69 species of grasses was made microscopically for detectable openness. In the species of Festucoideae percentage of distinctly open stomata varied from 0 to 78 with 6 of 8 species having numerous open stomata. Of the remaining 59 species appreciable percentages of clearly open stomata were found in only the three species, Zea mays, Paspalum monostachyum, and Trichloris mendocina. In all other species detectably open stomata constituted 1% or less of those examined. Furthermore, except in Zea mays, all apparently open stomata were open merely as slits, about 1 to 2 microns. It is concluded that in general many stomata of festucoid grasses do open widely, but that in general stomata of species of other grasses open in small numbers and then only as slits. Since most of the really few non-festucoid species of grasses sampled are natives of arid or semiarid regions the correlation between undetectable openness and systematic groups may or may not be real but may possibly be related more to survival in hot semiarid regions. No decision between these alternatives is now possible.
10.2307/3669390|The Venezuelan and Colombian coastal Capparis Pachaca H.B.K. and the southern Mexican and Central American C. oxysepela Wright ex Radlk. (both of Sect. Capparidastrum DC.) are so similar that the letter is best considered as C. P. ssp. oxysepala (Wright ex Radlk.) Iltis, stat. nov. Key to subspecies, descriptions, specimen citations, and a distribution map, as well as illustrations of a specimen and seed morphology of C.P. ssp. oxysepala, are given.
10.2307/3669391|Three species of Compositae-Heliantheae have a uniquely complex lamellated structure in the foot layer of the ektexine, as revealed by electron microscopy. The possible importance of this is pointed out.
10.2307/3669160|A revision of Psoralea Subgenus Pediomelum (Rydberg), new comb. based on Pediomelum Rydberg (as a genus), is presented, together with an account of the chromosome numbers of the whole genus Psoralea. The taxonomic status and relation between the infrageneric taxa of Psoralea are discussed. The Subgenus Pediomelum comprises 19 species of which one consists of 2 subspecies, another of 2 varieties. One of the varieties is newly described: Ps. latestipulata Shinners var. appressa, a local endemic of south-central Texas. One additional new combination is made: Ps. hypogaea subsp. scaposa, based on Ps. hypogaea var. scaposa A. Gray.
10.2307/3669161|The cream-colored band anterior to the dark nuchal blotch of Hypsiglena torquata adequately distinguishes all individuals of this species from the taxon H. ochrorhyncha which during the last 20 years has been treated (the present author believes incorrectly) as a subspecies of H. torquata. Resurrection of H. ochrorhyncha as a species removes the unsatisfactory sympatry of 2 races of H. torquata in southern Tamaulipas and in a broad area of the Pacific coastal plain of Western Mexico.
10.2307/3669162|The species of Salticidae which were collected in Yuma County, Arizona over the last three years are listed. Myrmarachne cutleri is described as new; Phidippus cardinalis is recorded for the first time from western Arizona.
10.2307/3668994|A sample of 2,360 skulls representing 21 of the 22 recognized species of Dipodomys were examined for the presence and structure of the interparietal. The interparietal is basically formed from four ossification centers. These often fuse during the early stages of development. The median components are the equivalent of the interparietal of other animals while the antero-lateral components are possibly equivalent of the tabular bones of reptiles and primitive mammals.
10.2307/3668995|Measurements of eight body parts were made on individuals of the red shiner, Notropis lutrensis, that were collected from the Salt River, Maricopa County, Arizona, March through August, 1964. Changes in relative proportions of these characters in relation to body length are shown. Sexual dimorphism was present in certain characters.
10.2307/3668996|Seasonal changes in body weights, fat depositions, adrenal glands and temperatures of ground squirrels under natural conditions were obtained in two sympatric species. A hibernator, Citellus tereticaudus, was compared with a non-hibernator, Citellus harrisii. C. tereticaudus exhibited characteristics of a hibernator such as fat deposition and rapid weight gains when given an unlimited food supply. In the later phases of the study, captive C. tereticaudus were observed in deep hibernation and animals in the field retired below ground for extended periods of time presumably in a hibernating state. C. harrisii stored little body fat even when supplied with abundant food in captivity and exhibited little of the rapid gains evidenced by C. tereticaudus. C. harrisii was found active above ground in each month of the year and showed no hibernation behavior in captivity.
10.2307/3668997|The association between Elaphe subocularis and the tick, Aponomma elaphensis is discussed. It has been some time since Price (1958, J. Parasitol, 44: 649-651) named a new species of Aponomma from E. subocularis. More information on the association between the host and parasite has been obtained since that time. Under natural conditions, Aponomma has always been found associated with E. subocularis. In captivity other species will support adult ticks and engorgement will occur as in the natural host. Engorgement and egg-laying occur in late summer and early fall. To date the authors have been unsuccessful in attempts to hatch the eggs. Some indication of Aponomma longevity is suggested by the fact that the last ticks to engorge and lay eggs did so three years after collection. A few ticks were still apparent the following year but these did not engorge and died during that year. Possibly these last were males but no check was made. The known range of the tick does not coincide completely with that of the snake. No ticks have been taken from either the north-eastern or northern edges of the Elaphe subocularis range. Most Mexican specimens of Elaphe subocularis are parasitized.
10.2307/3668998|A northern fence lizard was tagged externally with gold-198 and released on a restricted area at Texas A&M University. Hourly observations of the lizard's position and activity were made for 3 days in October, 1964, and sporadic observations were made for an additional 2 weeks. A Geiger-Muller survey meter was used to detect the position of the lizard. Activity of the lizard was restricted to the daylight hours, and initiation and cessation of this activity was correlated with temperature and sunlight. During the period of intensive observation, the lizard spent 61% of its time in one large tree and 39% within a radius of 20 feet of this tree. Vertical movement varied between ground level and 20 feet, with 50% of the time being spent above 5 feet. Selection of a resting position for the night was correlated with both temperature and wind velocity.
10.2307/3668999|A 14-month field study was made of the Austin, Texas, waste-stabilization pond system, consisting of 3 waste-stabilization ponds, 3 Colorado River stations, the dilution water, and an associated fresh-water pond not receiving organic loadings, with special attention to certain physical and chemical aspects and algal composition and periodicity. These field studies revealed that water temperatures varied with the season (particularly in the waste-stabilization ponds). The pH values of all collections were always alkaline. Dissolved oxygen and carbon dioxide were quite variable in the waste-stabilization ponds, fluctuating in a diurnal cycle. Biochemical oxygen demand, ammonia-nitrogen, and phosphate were in greater concentration in the waste-stabilization ponds than in the other stations, and nitrate-nitrogen was of about equal concentration at all stations. Oscillatoria and Anacystis were the predominant algal genera present in the waste-stabilization ponds during the warmer, summer months, and several green algae were predominant or codominant at other times. Diatoms were the predominant or codominant algae in the waters of other stations. It is believed that the reason for increased algal concentration in the waste-stabilization ponds is the increased ammonia-nitrogen resulting from increased organic loadings and not to the increased phosphate.
10.2307/3669000|Chromosome numbers are reported for 12 species of plants. Counts reported for the first time include: Agrostis microphylla Steud. (n=28), Eupatorium leucolepis (D.C.) T. & G. (n=30) and Panicum adspersum Trin. (n=27). Irregular meiosis was noted in Pennisetum villosum R. Br.
10.2307/3669295|A list of 74 species of Myxomycetes from Texas is presented which includes such rarely reported species as Licea biforis, Licea pedicellata, Licea tenera, Reticularia jurana, Comatricha cornea, Comatricha fimbriata, Macbrideola scintillans, Didymium trachysporum, Didymium ovoideum, and Echinostelium elachiston. The last two have been reported in the literature only from the Netherlands and Greece respectively.
10.2307/3669296|A lis of algae collected from Quitobaquito in Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument in southwestern Arizona is given along with a description of Cosmarium garrolense var. minor var. nov.
10.2307/3669297|Hybridization between Penstemon barbatus (Section Elmigera Benth.) and various species of Section Habroanthus Keck is not uncommon. Reports of hybrids of P. barbatus with P. virgatus A. Gray, P. glaber Pursh, P. comarrhenus A. Gray, and P. strictus Benth. are summarized. Hybridization between P. barbatus and P. strictus is reported. None of the hybrids are given Latin names.
10.2307/3669298|Stenocarpha is a Mexican genus close to, but distinct from, Galinsoga and Sabazia. Its only species, S. filiformis, possesses pappose and epappose forms; these occur together in natural populations and are mixed in the type collections.
10.2307/3669299|Approaching the study of restricted endemic American species, whose nearest relatives are indigenous to the Old World, we must envision form-making on a nearly global scale over vast time-spans. The large scale of the underlying events becomes apparent after massive studies of available factual geographic data about plants and animals. Vicariant form-making is the key to understanding of these data. Sound classification at the subgeneric level in Euphorbia is possible only on the background of some knowledge of this entire enormous genus.
10.2307/3669300|Aqueous and methanolic extracts of leaves of Ambrosia elatior and A. psilostachya were found to be very inhibitory to selected test strains of Azotobacter, Rhizobium, Nitrobacter, and Nitrosomonas. The 3 most important inhibitors produced by both species of Ambrosia were found to be isochlorogenic acid, chlorogenic acid, and a glucose ester of caffeic acid. Isochlorogenic acid appeared to be present in greatest amount in A. psilostachya, whereas the glucose ester of caffeic acid appeared to be present in greatest amount in A. elatior.
10.2307/3669301|Dominance of Yucca carnerosana and sotol defines a yucca-sotol zone, which extends to the summit of the range. Limited areas of evergreen chaparral and a few oaks and junipers are present at the higher elevations.
10.2307/3669302|A study of net plankton in Sardis Reservoir and tributaries was made from June 3 to August 11, 1953. Fifteen collecting stations were established on the reservoir and tributaries and one station was located below the dam. Collections were made from each station at weekly intervals. Collections from any given station usually were made on the same day of the week and at about the same time of day. A total of 217 quantitative samples were collected from all stations over the period of the investigation. These samples contained a total of 89 genera of plankton. The plankton had a diversity of 43 genera from streams, 44 genera from bays, and 29 genera from the reservoir. The lower portions of bays and reservoir had a much higher plankton count than did upper portions of bays and creeks. The quantity of plankton increased rapidly after streams entered the reservoir. Reservoir and lower portions of bays contained the largest numbers of plankton; the streams the smallest number. There was an intermingling of plankton in bays from both streams and reservoir. Plankton of the upper portions of bays resembled more closely that of streams while that of lower portions of bays was more like reservoir plankton. Phytoplankton was dominant over zooplankton both in number and genera represented. The study includes a list of 59 genera of phytoplankton and 30 genera of zooplankton. Of the phytoplankton the Chlorophyta contained the largest number of genera with 27, while the Rotatoria represented the largest number of zooplankton with 13 genera. Plankton in the reservoir does not develop from that carried into it, but from that indigenous to it where psammolittoral, periphyton, and other benthic forms continuously produce stages of the life cycle which recruit the reservoir plankton. High temperatures of surface water caused a decrease in plankton counts. Much of the plankton died or migrated to deeper water where some of was lost by passing out at the spillway. The genus Mougeotia was the dominant genus represented and was responsible for most plankton peaks. Plankton characteristic of inflowing streams consisted largely of diatoms and desmids, while filamentous algae and zooplankton were more common in the reservoir.
10.2307/3669303|The mean home-range size of C. h. beldingi was 0.11 acres, computed for adults recaptured an average of 5.5 times. Females exhibited a mean home range of 0.15 acres and males 0.07 acres.
10.2307/3669304|Gross and microscopic studies of tails of adult heteromyid rodents reveal a specialized sebaceous glandular area in the ventral side and centered a quarter to a third the distance from the tail base, in species of Perognathus. Although well developed only in this genus of the family, the caudal gland shows marked species differences and possibly as well, variation related to sex and reason. However, many more specimens are needed in order to substantiate the latter points. Possible significance of the caudal glands in olfactory communication and behavior seems likely but is not yet supported by observations or experiments.
10.2307/3669305|Song phrases of North American chacalacas are described and discussed. Sound spectrograms indicate that all species have several features in common: the song phrase may be divided into three motifs in which the formant frequency of the first (lowest) formant is between 1000 and 2000 cps.; there are elements of voiced sound which are largely masked by white noise; several phrases are delivered in series as a song period; the phrase varies from 5 to 9 deciseconds in length and the rest between the phrases in a period is less than the length of the phrase. The presence of a "guttural rattle" in the phrase of all Mexican Pacific coast species serves to separate the genus into two subgroups. Fixed, distinctive characters serve to separate the genus into five species. Within the species there are certain individual variations but no regional or subspecific variations were found. O. poliocephala and O. wagleri have some similarities which suggest that they may be sibling species.
10.2307/3669306|Etheostoma lepidum females lay eggs more rapidly in the light when isolated with homospecific males and more often in the dark when isolated with heterospecific males. It is concluded that visual cues are a major factor in discrimination in these fishes. It is also likely that natural hybrids are produced at night in habitats in which one parental species is rare and the other common.
10.2307/3669176|In the rain forests of southern Veracruz, Hyla phaeota cyanosticta breeds in pools in the forks of trees, depressions in logs and in pools on the ground. The breeding call consists of two rasping squawks uttered close together (occasionally one note), followed by a silent interval of 30 seconds or longer. There is probably no well-defined breeding period. The egg mass is a surface film in which each egg is surrounded by one envelope. In the laboratory, hatching occurred in stages 19 and 20, about 24 hours after fertilization. The oral disc appeared in stage 23 and was fully developed by stage 27. There is a median gap in the upper papillary border and the third lower tooth row is usually shorter than the other tooth rows. The labial tooth formula is 2/3. Tadpoles in advanced developmental stages (36-41) are dark brown over the dorsum, sides and tail muscle when pigment granules in the melanophores are dispersed. The dorsal fin is well pigmented but the ventral body wall, eye ring, ventral edge of the tail muscle, base of the ventral fin and tail tip are mostly unpigmented. Maximum total length attained by laboratory-raised larvae was 44 mm in stage 41. Metamorphosis (stage 46) of laboratory specimens occurred in a minimum of 40 days after hatching. Newly transformed frogs were about 14 mm in snout vent length. They lacked the reticulations on the sides and the blue spots and dark markings on the thighs that are present in the adults. Larvae of H. p. cyanosticta and H. baudini from the Tuxtla region are similar in pigmentation and body form, but may be distinguished by differences in pigmentation of the ventral and lateral aspects of the tail muscle. The larvae of H. baudini from southern Veracruz differ from Yucatan baudini larvae in the structure of the dorsal fin, oral disc and anal tube. H. phaeota cyanosticta adults differ from some adult H. p. phaeota in having no postorbital processes and in breeding call. Smilisca, to which H. baudini and H. phaeota have been assigned by other authors, cannot be separated from Hyla on the basis of differences in the squamosal bone, depressor mandibulae muscle or presence of postorbital processes.
10.2307/3669177|Bufo coccifer (auctorum) is regarded as representing two species differing in structure, call and habitat. The name coccifer is restricted to the Central American populations, and Bufo cycladen is proposed for the Mexican population.
10.2307/3669178|A review of the characteristics, taxonomic status, and distribution of the genus Streptocephalus in the Western Hemisphere is presented. Seven species are recognized including S. mackini and S. linderi, described as new. A key is included.
10.2307/3669179|Orientation tests were conducted at a snake hibernaculum in western Utah in the autumn of 1964. Fourteen of 20 striped whip snakes, Masticophis t. taeniatus, and 9 of 10 Great Basin rattlesnakes, Crotalus viridis lutosus, returned to the hibernaculum after displacements of from 50 to 274 meters. Individuals of both species were capable of homing from several cardinal points. Indirect evidence supports the contention that neonate hatchling rattlesnakes may follow trails of older snakes to the den.
10.2307/3669180|Cnemidophorus velox (uniparental) and C. inornatus (biparental) are reported as sympatric sibling species in New Mexico. Characteristics of the scutellation of the species were analyzed and compared. Clines oriented north-south through central New Mexico are present in both species. In addition to having subtle morphological distinctiveness, the 2 species are well segregated ecologically; occasionally they occur sympatrically in ecotones between grassland and woodland.
10.2307/3669181|The present state of flowering-plant morphology is explored, it being concluded that, as some workers have belatedly discovered, botany generally lacks the basic thought processes and conceptual framework which should invest our technical vocabulary with significance such that comparative morphology (thus phylogenetic deductions) may be approached on a sound basis and communicated without the current overwhelming semantic difficulties. It is suggested that in the juglandaceous gynoecium the decussate arrangement of parts is probably secondarily derived from a basic spiral arrangement, and the "appendices surnumeraires" may well be sterile "carpels." The pistillate flower is a modified strobilus of scaliform subtending organs and subtended ovules. This analysis based on sound considerations of symmetry and morphogeny is contrasted with the ideas of LeRoy and of Meeuse and Houthuesen. The suggestion of Meeuse and Houthuesen as to the correspondence of certain carpic structures in Juglandaceae and Gnetaceae is not accepted at face value. A discussion is offered of the importance of understanding the orthogenetic tendency of neoteny in rationalizing the bewilderingly complex polyphylesis among Paleozoic vascular plants which led to technical angiospermy, and of the importance of a new morphological attack unencumbered by the neo-Goethian orthodox apriorisms and not miscarried because of too great an enthusiasm for part-to-part homology which overlooks stupefying structural complexity.
10.2307/3669182|Key, descriptions, synonymy, and range map are provided for the genus and its 2 species, E. palmeri and E. pringlei, of the central Mexican highlands. No new nomenclature is proposed.
10.2307/3669639|The nine species of the Linnaean genus Uniola are compared using the new criteria employed in grass systematics, including habit and texture, spikelet structure, form of first seedling leaf, form of lodicules, structure of root epidermis and development of root hairs, structure of embryo and caryopsis, pattern of leaf epidermis, leaf anatomy and chromosome number and size. The results of this study indicate that the group is composed of three discordant elements. The three elements are recognized as distinct genera, namely Chasmanthium, Uniola and the new genus Leptochlopsis, which will be described formally in another paper.
10.2307/3669640|In an effort to acquire further data relevant to the taxonomic status of Laphamia and Perityle, 2 genera which have been combined by some workers, and in an attempt to establish further criteria for the recognition of species of Laphamia, a chromatographic analysis of some species of these taxa was undertaken. Methods were devised which gave good separation and resolution of the phenolics characteristic of these species. A number of flavonoids, many of which appear to be flavonol glycosides, are present. Most species of Laphamia and Perityle can be distinguished on the basis of the chromatographic patterns. The chemical evidence is useful in evaluating the taxonomic status of Laphamia and Perityle. Chromatographic patterns of certain species of Laphamia are quite similar to certain of those of Perityle. Both Laphamia and Perityle are quite distinctive chromatographically from another genus, Pericome, which on the basis of its morphic similarity to Laphamia and Perityle has been suggested as a close relative.
10.2307/3669641|A total of 102 species, varieties or forms are added to the algal flora of Oklahoma including 61 Chlorophyta, 1 Chrysophyta, 11 Euglenophyta, 3 Pyrrophyta, 25 Cyanophyta and 1 Rhodophyta. References are cited for descriptions and illustrations of the taxa, and the localities of collections are indicated.
10.2307/3669642|Distinguishing features of the fossil species of Cryptantha from the Pliocene Ogallala Formation are discussed. Comparisons are made to extant species where possible. Distributional ranges of the species are presented.
10.2307/3669643|The taxonomy of the fossil species of Celtis is reviewed. The morphologic features of the endocarp are described. Evidence is presented to show that C. hatcheri and C. willistoni are distinct species.
10.2307/3669644|Plants from 60 races of Euoenothera from northwestern Arkansas were grown under uniform field conditions. Much variability was found among the various races in both phenotype and cytology. Based upon their cytogenetic characteristics, all races except one (strigosa) were found to fit into the biennis I group.
10.2307/3669645|Fifty-six chromosome counts for ten species of Hymenoxys are reported. It is noted that tetraploidy occurs more commonly in this genus than has been known previously and that tetraploid races are known only from the section Tetraneuris.
10.2307/3669646|A complete bibliography of vegetational studies of the state of Colorado is presented.
10.2307/3669647|This study provides additional data on the distribution, morphological characters, habitat, phenology and associates of Mahonia trifoliolata (Moric.) Fedde var. glauca I. M. Johnst. and M. pinifolia Lundell in north-central Mexico. Pertinent literature is analysed and compared to fiield data. A map on the distribution of two varieties of M. pinifolia is presented, according to the boundary-line method. Two photographs are included.
10.2307/3669648|The systematics and nomenclature of South American bats of the genus Eptesicus are reviewed. Based upon the study of 317 specimens, seven distinct species are recognized, as follows: Eptesicus andinus, E. brasiliensis, E. dorianus, E. furinalis, E. fuscus, E. innoxius, and E. montosus. Of these species, E. andinus, E. furinalis, and E. fuscus occur also in Central America and Mexico. One new subspecies, Eptesicus brasiliensis thomasi, is described from the headwaters of the Amazon River.
10.2307/3669649|Data concerning thermoregulation and hibernation in the orange-throated whiptail, Cnemidophorus hyperythrus beldingi, were collected during 1963 and 1964 in southern California and Baja California. Various thermal categories were determined on the basis of 138 recorded body temperatures taken from April through August of 1963. No thermal differences between the sexes were found. The thermal activity range and the mean body temperature respectively was 33.4C. to 42.2C. and 38.5C.  0.14 (variance 1.644). The "basking range" appears to be arbitrary for this species. The "normal activity range," without the parameter imposed by the "basking range," is about 36.3C. to 41.0C. No correlation was found between body temperature and time of day, as plotted from April through August, nor was there a significant difference between the mean body temperatures of the morning and the afternoon series. Substrate temperature appears to play a more important role in regulating body temperature than does that of the air. The daily cycle of whiptails was dominated and controlled by thermoregulatory needs. Their activity cycle fluctuated with changes in daily and seasonal ambient temperatures. Completely overcast skies, strong steady winds and prolonged precipitation interrupted activity. Whiptails maintain their body temperatures within a rather narrow range by behavioral thermoregulation. Behavior related to raising and lowering of the body temperature is discussed in detail. Adult whiptails usually enter into hibernation in late July through most of September, and immatures in December. Active individuals were first observed in small numbers in Baja California in March and in San Diego County in April. Twenty-five hibernating individuals were excavated during December, 1963 and February, 1964. Information concerning each lizard and/or its hibernaculum is presented, and hibernation burrows are described in detail. Selection by whiptails of an optimum temperature level from the soil gradient by vertical movements in their tunnels is indicated.
10.2307/3669650|Bacula occurring in 51 approximately adult male bats (Tadarida brasiliensis) were prepared, studied and measured. The frequency of occurrence in the population was 78 per cent but was 100 per cent in old bats, indicating that osteogenesis occurs about the time of maturity. The baculum is short (0.53-0.85 mm., mean .637, N = 39) and usually spindle-shaped in dorsal view, tapering to acuminate termini proximally and distally. In lateral view the bone is usually sharply curved upward. No significant differences were found between the mean bacular lengths of two age classes; probably little if any growth occurs after the baculum forms. It is highly variable (CV for 39 bats having bacula, 10.6) in comparison to variation of other mammalian structures or to the length of cranium in T. brasiliensis (r is not significant in analysis of the paired variables). High variation may result from a relatively unimportant functional length; from natural selection operating on either or probably both sexes; from lack of integration with other skeletal parts; from a factor associated with late osteogenesis; or from combinations of these. If variation of the baculum in mammals in general is high, as it appears to be in this bat, the great diversity of the structure in Mammalia is not so surprising. A capacity for rapid evolution of the the baculum, governed by natural selection, may be provided by high variation with genetic basis, and may be extremely important in speciation because of the potential or correlative development of mechanisms of reproductive isolation.
10.2307/3669475|Aravaipa Creek in Graham and Pinal counties, Arizona, is a now-isolated, spring-fed tributary of the San Pedro River. This stream acts as a refugium for 7 of the 12 known native fish species of the San Pedro drainage (Gila robusta, Rhinichthys osculus, Agosia chrysogaster, Tiaroga cobitis, Meda fulgida, Catostomus insignis, and Pantosteus clarki). Only two introduced fishes are present (Ictalurus melas and Lepomis cyanellus), and these are restricted to a pond lateral to the creek.
10.2307/3669476|Experiments were conducted to breed thirteen-lined ground squirrels, Citellus (= Spermophilus) tridecemlineatus in the laboratory and determine the age of emergence from the litter burrow for young squirrels. Post-natal growth curves for body weight, body length, tail length, and hindfoot length were established. The age of occurrence for certain behavioral and developmental phenomena were recorded. Four matings established a gestation period of 27-28 days. Age of emergence from the litter burrow was 32 days. Primary growth of the tail, hind-foot and body was complete by the tenth week, while weight increments continued until hibernation. Five instances of delayed or secondary parturition were recorded.
10.2307/3669477|Nearly 1000 specimens were examined and found to include representatives of 21 families, 52 genera and 83 species. Most of these represent new distribution records within Oklahoma, and one family, seven genera and 27 species are reported for the first time. All spider families known from Oklahoma are characterized, and keys to their genera are presented. As far as possible, the synonomies of species listed by Banks, Newport, and Bird (1932) are brought up to date. All of these species, included in this report, are briefly characterized. A summary of the spiders utilized by the muddauber Sceliphron cementarium is presented.
10.2307/3669478|The Linnaean genus Uniola is considered to be composed of three discordant groups of species. The three groups are recognized as distinct genera. A systematic treatment is presented for two of the three genera recognized: Uniola composed of U. paniculata and U. pittieri; the new genus Leptochlopsis composed of L. virgata and L. condensata. Each treatment includes annotated synonymy, nomenclatural notes, descriptions, keys, citation of documentary specimens, geographical ranges and habitats.
10.2307/3669479|Recently discovered populations of ocotillo Fouquieria splendens, and smoke tree, Dalea spinosa in extreme southern Nevada were studied. Sparse distribution, reduced vigor and size all indicate that these populations have reached their northern geographic and ecologic limits. It is suggested that nothern dispersal and establishment of smoke tree is checked in extreme southern Nevada by lowered and more prolonged winter temperatures. Populations of ocotillo are disjunct and may be relict.
10.2307/3669480|Populations of Quercus gambelii (the common Gambel oak of the southern Rocky Mountains) in northeastern New Mexico are reported which include aberrant individuals exhibiting characters of the bur oak (Q. macrocarpa), a species of the midwestern and eastern states. The most extreme of these individuals are more similar to bur oak than to Gambel oak. A detailed study by Maze (to be published elsewhere) indicates that this situation is the result of past hybridization between the two species. It is postulated that this probably occurred at some time during the Pleistocene, when the range of bur oak must have extended as far west as New Mexico.
10.2307/3668857|A systematic treatment is presented for the genus Chasmanthium composed of C. latifolium, C. laxum, C. sessiliflorum, C. nitidum, C. ornithorhynchum and a putative hybrid, designated C. laxum  ornithorhynchum. The treatment includes annotated synonymy, nomenclatural notes, descriptions, keys, citation of documentary specimens, geographical ranges and habitats.
10.2307/3668858|Picradeniopsis oppositifolia and P. woodhousei, sympatric in the area of investigation, are distinct taxa on chromosomal and morphological bases. One presumed hybrid population is examined.
10.2307/3668859|A total of 435 rectal body temperatures was obtained during a study of a population of woodrats in southern Texas. The rats were live-trapped and the temperatures were taken after overnight exposure to ambient conditions. It is recognized that the sample may not be representative of the free-ranging population; however, the data reflect the response of the individuals to environmental temperature and reveal considerable lability within the population. Low ambient temperatures clearly cause a reduction in body temperature. Sample means during winter months are lower than those of summer months despite the fact that freezing conditions are infrequent and diurnal temperatures as high as 80 F. are not rare during winter. A few individuals suffered drastic reduction in body temperature (as low as 16.4 C.) but recovered with no noticeable after effects. The house, occupied by the woodrat, provides a buffered environment and maintenance of body temperature appears more related to avoidance of ambient extremes than to regulatory ability.
10.2307/3668860|Examination of 621 individuals of Rana pipiens from 54 localities in eastern Colorado revealed two character complexes within this species. These complexes may be distinguished on the basis of five contrasting traits. The complexes were never found to overlap geographically. At four localities they were collected less than 40 miles from one another and yet maintained their character consistency and discreteness. This study indicates there is little, if any, gene flow between the two complexes. Moreover, clinal variation within one species is not represented here.
10.2307/3668861|Tantilla taeniata auctorum from Isla Bonacca, Islas de la Bahia, Honduras, is named Tantilla tritaeniata.
10.2307/3668862|Twenty-nine species of bats that are either rare in collections or for which noteworthy records of range extension are available are discussed. Two are new to Mxico, 11 to Chiapas, 1 to Oaxaca, 2 to Veracruz, 1 to Nuevo Leon, 1 to Guerrero, 13 to Guatemala, 1 to Honduras, 1 to Nicaragua and 2 to Costa Rica. Biological data are included for most species.
10.2307/3669145|Reinvestigation, including washing of matrix, in the old Slaton quarry, Lubbock County, Texas, yielded remains of 30 kinds of mammals. A white-tailed prairie-dog, Cynomys vetus, is reported from Texas for the first time. Numerous good specimens of the extinct water rat. Neofiber leonardi, show the distinctness of that species. Abundant material permits detailed description of two extinct species of horses. The vertebrate fauna indicates a mild climate with extensive grasslands and scattered trees and thickets in the vicinity of the fossil site. The fauna is probably of early Illinoian age.
10.2307/3669146|Crenichthys baileyi remains inactive at night and becomes active during the day. In temperatures nearing the voluntary maximum there is a very marked bimodal pattern of activity which is less well marked in cooler spring. Stress such as increased incidence of parasitism or establishment of exotic species appears to alter the pattern of activity.
10.2307/3669147|Four specimens of an undescribed form of toad (Bufo) collected in Echo Canyon, near the Colorado National Monument, Mesa County, Colorado, are identified as the first recorded natural hybrids between the species Bufo punctatus and Bufo woodhousei. The hybrids were taken in association with individuals of both species, and share a combination of the external and osteological characters of the parent species. Unusual ecological conditions at Echo Canyon have permitted the development of mixed breeding choruses of valley and canyon anuran species, and the restricted habitat enhances the chance for accidental mis-matings.
10.2307/3669148|Fish Lake, Utah, is an alpine, oligotrophic lake inhabited by a diversity of littoral zooplankters, but by few limnetic species. Most species are typically limnetic or littoral, although some are adaptable to either habitat. Populations from different littoral areas vary in species composition and relative abundance. Changes in population density appear to be influenced significantly by wind patterns, temperature, and pH. Diurnal migration patterns of limnetic species appear to be influenced by the 24 hour cycle of surface illumination, temperature, and food availability at different depths.
10.2307/3669149|There are 91 species and varieties reported, including Physopella mexicana on Tripsacum lanceolatum in Durango, Puccinia chihuahuana on Muhlenbergia fragilis in Chihuahua, P. hilariae on Hilaria hintonii in Morelos, P. sierrensis on Muhlenbergia speciosa in Durango and Sinaloa, P. chisosensis Cumm. var. longa on Piptochaetium fimbriatum in Coahuila, P. vilfae Arth. & Holw. var. mexicana on Sporobolus buckleyi in Nuevo Leon and Tamaulipas, and Uromyces epicampis Diet. & Holw. var. durangensis on Muhlenbergia glauca in Durango.
10.2307/3669150|Keys, brief descriptions, notes and distribution maps are provided for each of the nine species of Helianthemum recognized from Mexico and Central America.
10.2307/3669151|Bromus japonicus occurs in the pioneer weed stage of succession in abandoned fields in Oklahoma, and this species, which has a low nitrogen requirement, was found previously to be inhibitory to test strains of nitrogen-fixing and nitrifying bacteria. The partial identification of the inhibitory compounds was accomplished by appropriate column and paper chromatographic techniques (before and after acid and alkaline hydrolysis) and by tests of bacterial inhibition employing the diffusion technique on solid media. Six different phenolic inhibitors were found. One was identified as a glucose ester of ferulic acid; the others were complex molecules consisting of glucose and fructose (or some disaccharide or polysaccharide), and one or more phenolic fractions. Identification of the phenolic fractions has not been completed.
10.2307/3669264|Forty sterile culture dishes containing 75 ml each of a modified White's standard nutrient solution in 1.5% agar were inoculated with four gemmae each. Ten dishes were then wrapped in one or two lavers (6 single, 4 double) of red cellulose acetate, ten in green cellulose, acetate, and ten in blue cellulose acetate while the remaining ten dishes were not wrapped. These dishes were then placed in a Sherer-Gillett 25-7 growth chamber adjusted to a 16 hour light period at 70 F and an 8 hour dark period at 55 F. At the end of eleven weeks the control dishes had produced an average of 32.7 sq. cm. of thalli and 83.3 gemmae cups per dish, while single wrapped red dishes had produced an average of 16.11 sq. cm. of thalli and 19.83 gemmae cups per dish. The single wrapped green dishes had produced an average of 14.8 sq. cm. of thalli and 8.16 gemmae cups per dish, and the double wrapped red dishes had produced an average of 17.5 sq. cm. of thalli and 8.25 gemmae cups per dish. The double green, single blue, and double blue had produced an average of 10.5, 11.5, and 1.2 sq. cm. of thalli respectively, but failed to produce gemmae cups. Although the effects of light on higher plants is being studied in detail, there have been few studies involving the effects of various wavelengths of visible light on the liverworts.
10.2307/3669265|Radioassay of individuals of Ferocactus Wislizeni and other cactus species collected during 1964-1965 from a steep desert slope revealed the presence of radionuclide activity. Within the initial samples, a gradient of activity positively correlated with collection elevation was noted. Gradient formation is explained on the basis of individual rooting systems in conjunction with some extraneous source of radioactive material. A considerable decrease in radioactivity throughout the study period was noted. It appears likely that the activity detected in earlier samplings may have been a result of ejected radioactivity from an underground thermonuclear detonation and/or local deposition of natural-occurring radionuclides. The original source of radioactive material and its movement through the soil are speculated upon.
10.2307/3669266|On the basis of morphological and chromosomal evidence two species are transferred from Eupatorium to Brickellia. The following new combinations are made: Brickellia pedunculosa (DC.) Harcombe & Beaman and B. coahuilensis (A. Gray) Harcombe & Beaman. The species are considered to be primitive members of Brickellia related to B. monocephala.
10.2307/3669267|The vegetation of a specific area on the Pine Ridge escarpment in northwestern Nebraska was analyzed by use of transects and the point frame method. The area was characterized by the presence of Pinus ponderosa Doug. and interspersed areas of mixed prairie and has been relatively ungrazed for the past 22 years. Based on relative density, the dominant woody species were Prunus virginiana L. var. melanocarpa (A. Nels.) Sarg. and Pinus ponderosa. Pinus ponderosa had the greatest relative basal area. The principal grasses, based on relative foliage cover, were Andropogon scoparius Michx. and Poa pratensis L. Other codominants were Carex filifolia Nutt. and Yucca glauca Nutt. The area is unique because it contains boreal representatives and species characteristic of the Rocky Mountains, Great Plains, and the southeastern and southwestern United States.
10.2307/3669268|There are 59 species, excluding those on Gramineae, reported, including two new to continental North America, Uromyces ciceris arietinus and U. corallocarpi, and 13 others newly reported from Mexico. A new species, U. sonorensis, is described on Merremia palmeri, from near Navojoa, Sonora.
10.2307/3669269|Field observations were made of interactions between white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and other mammals on the Welder Refuge in San Patricio County, Texas, between February, 1961, and February, 1963. Encounters between white-tailed deer and other mammals resulted in the following conclusions regarding the proximate, short-term effects: the presence of coyotes (Canis latrans), bobcats (Lynx rufus), javelina (Pecari tajacu), horses and cattle may be detrimental to deer, and likewise the presence of deer may be detrimental to bobcats and coyotes.
10.2307/3669270|Bats were captured in a mist net at White Spot Spring, Desert Game Range, Clark County, Nevada during the months September through May for a total of 21 mist net nights. Time of capture, air temperature, and wind conditions are given for each species. Two species, Pipistrellus hesperus and Myotis californicus were active throughout the fall and winter. Pipistrellus was netted at air temperatures ranging from 1 to 31 C. Myotis californicus was netted at air temperatures of 2 to 27 C. Approximately 48% of the Myotis were taken at air temperatures between 2 and 6 C. and approximately 11% of the Pipistrellus were netted at air temperatures of 5 C. or below. A third species Antrozous pallidus was netted in low numbers at air temperatures as low as 2 C.
10.2307/3669271|Population and banding studies were conducted on a population of Natalus stramineus at Mina Armolillo, an abandoned test mine 5 mi NNW Alamos, 2 mi. S Piedras Verdes, Sonora, Mexico, during 1964 and early 1965. From these studies it was found that this bat does not have a mass migration but does have some local migration in search of a more favorable day-shelter. Members of this species require a day-shelter which maintains a constantly high relative humidity and a drop in relative humidity corresponds with a drop in the population.
10.2307/3669272|Wood rat (Neotoma fuscipes macrotis) densities were obtained for four manzanita (Arctostaphylos glandulosa) chaparral associations in the Santa Ana Mountains. Densities ranged from three per acre in pure manzanita stands to 15 per acre in manzanita-chamise (Adenostoma fasciculatum) mixtures, with an average of ten rats per acre. The high densities were related to the vegetational cover which was never less than 90%. Variations in wood rat densities may also be influenced by variations in plant species composition and by the proximity of different plant associations.
10.2307/3669273|Chionactis saxatilis is described from a montane population in southwestern Arizona. Apparently related to C. occipitalis, the new species is unique in the genus in having the tail-to-total length ratio decreasing with maturity, and in having more ventrals in males than in females. Eggs deposited in captivity hatched after 94-99 days.
10.2307/3669111|A field and laboratory investigation was pursued to determine what ecological differences, if any, exist among three species of garter snakes, Thamnophis elegans vagrans (Baird and Girard), T. cyrtopsis cyrtopsis (Kennicott), and T. rufipunctatus (Cope), allowing them to coexist. Of the 157 garter snakes captured, 83 were T. elegans, 45 were T. cyrtopsis, and 29 were T. rufipunctatus. From the field studies it was noted that there was a definite food preference; T. rufipunctatus fed only on fish, T. cyrtopsis on amphibians, and T. elegans on amphibians, fish, and worms. Some segregation of species was indicated as to habitat. Thamnophis rufipunctatus occurred in rocky areas near still water; T. elegans were found in vegetation of various types; and T. cyrtopsis lived in both well vegetated and rocky areas. The preferred temperature range was lower for T. rufipunctatus than for T. elegans and T. cyrtopsis. Thamnophis rufipunctatus and some T. cyrtopsis used refugia in rocky areas, but few T. elegans were found in rocky situations and probably sought shelter in areas of logs and vegetation. Thamnophis rufipunctatus spent much of their time in water, whereas T. elegans were the most terrestrial, and T. cyrtopsis were immediate in this respect. From the laboratory experiments it was determined that body density differed between T. cyrtopsis and T. elegans with the difference reflected in the method of swimming--T. cyrtopsis swam on the surface and T. elegans below it. This behavior may have been a result of the animals ability to retain or not retain air within its lung. The differences among the species studied indicate that although the three species live in the same geographical area they do indeed live in different ecological niches. Because of these differences that allow sympatry the three species--T. elegans, T. cyrtopsis, and T. rufipunctatus-coexist.
10.2307/3669112|Live trapping data from the Desert Game Range in southern Nevada were used to determine the activity patterns and home range of the antelope ground squirrel, Citellus leucurus. Young ground squirrels appear above ground in the late summer. Few animals remained on the study area by the following spring. Above-ground activity occurs at that time of the day when temperatures are moderate. Live trapping data as indicated by the number of daily captures and average range of daily movements clearly suggest that temperature is a major factor influencing activity. Squirrels are largely inactive at temperatures below 10 C. and above 32 C. and are most active in September, a time when moderate temperatures occur throughout the day. The winter and early summer are periods of reduced activity as revealed by fewer captures and shorter average range of movements for daily and monthly periods. Home ranges by the greatest distance between captures method averaged 20.6 acres as contrasted with an estimate of 14.9 acres by the minimum home range plus estimate method and eight acres by the distance between random points of capture method. Data from nine squirrels captured 20 or more times, strongly indicate that approximately 20 captures are needed for a reliable estimation of home range. In addition captures should occur over a period of at least one month for a good estimate of home range in this species. Average daily range of movements indicate that this ground squirrel utilizes an area of approximately four acres for periods of one or more days. Over a period of time a ground squirrel moves throughout all of the segments of a home range. The area of daily activity may be called a daily range in contrast to the home range which contains several daily ranges. The large home range consisting of several smaller daily ranges enables ground squirrels to utilize a large area in search of a wide variety of seasonal food items. During periods of unfavorable weather, short excursions can be made from numerous burrows found within the daily ranges thereby avoiding the extremes of the desert environment.
10.2307/3669113|All invertebrates thus far identified from Carlsbad Caverns and nearby caves, Eddy County, New Mexico, are arthropods. The fauna includes copepods, trichoniscid isopods, scorpions, pseudoscorpions, spiders, harvestmen, mites, centipedes, millipedes, collembolans, campodeids, rhaphidophorines, psocids, tineid moths, dipterans, fleas, and beetles (Carabidae, Staphylinidae, Scarabaeidae, and Tenebrionidae). About 60% of the species are apparently troglophiles. Only 2 species are unquestionably troglobitic (Speorthus tuganbius, a polydesmid millipede; and Plusiocampa sp., a campodeid dipluran), but 2 other species are possibly troglobitic (Thalkethops grallatrix, a centipede; and Ceuthophilus longipes, a rhaphidophorine). The caves are relatively dry and are situated in a semi-arid region, which probably accounts for the poor troglobitic fauna and high percentage of troglophiles. Many of the species are guanobites.
10.2307/3669114|Variation studied in 127 specimens of Dipodomys ordii medius from Lynn County, Texas, included quantitative differences in external, cranial, mandibular and bacular measurements and shapes of bacula, palatine, basioccipital-basisphenoid complex, and interparietal bones. Males were larger and more variable than females in most measurements. Significant sexual dimorphism was found in weight and in body and hind foot lengths, in upper diastemal, lower diastemal, basal, greatest skull, nasal and bullar-premaxillary lengths, and in interorbital, maxillary and greatest skull widths. Supraoccipital width and pelage color showed the most variation; greatest skull depth and length showed the least. Extent of variation in this one population of D.o. medius indicates a need to re-evaluate all of the subspecies of D. ordii, employing statistical methods.
10.2307/3669115|Research to date on Lepidomeda vittata is reviewed. The minnow suffered marked reduction in range and abundance between the late 1930s and early 1960s, then enjoyed marked reproductive success and re-invaded most of its former range between 1963 and 1966. Present distribution of the fish is in most north-flowing tributaries of the Little Colorado basin, and in the Little Colorado River headwaters. Previous ecological observations on the species are reviewed and supplemented by information on breeding conditions and time, fecundity, and food habits.
10.2307/3669116|A population movement study of the Harris' Sparrow and Tree Sparrow was conducted in eastern Kansas from 11 October 1965 through 17 May 1966. Many Harris' Sparrows and Tree Sparrows were migrants through November. The spring migration of the Harris' Sparrow was gradual while the spring migration of the Tree Sparrow was abrupt. Both species followed general courses of movement, with the Harris' Sparrow being restricted to wooded routes. The length of stay in a given area varied with individuals of both species. Both species exhibited an unstable flock structure. Movements of the Harris' Sparrow were related to a combination of weather and food supply, and the Tree Sparrow movements were related to weather. Both species picked up grit daily from gravel roads. Sub-groups were noted within the Harris' Sparrow population. Both species were specific in returning to a general wintering ground.
10.2307/3669117|During the 7-week period, 13 June to 1 August, 1966, 21 species of aquatic Phycomycetes were identified from soil water, or organism samples collected from Lake Texoma or the counties in southern Oklahoma in the vicinity of Lake Texoma. The majority of these fungi were recovered using bits of organic matter as bait; 3 species, Myzocytium proliferum in Spirogyra sp. filaments from 2 sites, M. zoophthorum in several genera of rotifers taken in a plankton sample from 10 meters depth near the mouth of Buncombe Creek, and Lagenidium rabenhorstii in cells of the desmid Closterium sp. from 2 sites, were recorded from direct microscopic observation of the appropriate host materials. Fifteen species in 9 genera of fungi are reported for the first time from the state of Oklahoma. The first paper reporting on the aquatic Phycomycetes from Lake Texoma was published by C. E. Miller (1961). His study was an approximately one-month investigation of the saprophytic and parasitic Phycomycetes found in the water of the lake, using pollens as bait, as well as making direct microscopic observations of algal collections. He reported 9 species of Chytridiales, 1 species of Hypochytridiales and 4 species of Lagenidiales.
10.2307/3669118|Cover and frequency data are given for major plants of the Festuca thurberi Association in the subalpine region of Sierra Blanca Peak, southern New Mexico. Festuca thurberi dominates these meadows with cover values between 43 and 81 percent. Festuca arizonica and Muhlenbergia montana are usually subdominants having maximum cover values of 32 and 26 percent respectively. The association is floristically rich with about 90 herbaceous species. The stands occur on a variety of sites from 10,000-11,100 feet on the Sierra Blanca massif, but are especially conspicuous on ridges above the closed subalpine forest whose tree dominants are Picea engelmanni, Abies lasiocarpa, or pure Populus tremuloides. Data are also given for subalpine meadows dominated by Poa pratensis, and the possibility that this type is derived from the Festuca thurberi community by the grazing of domestic animals is discussed.
10.2307/3669605|The composition, frequency of occurrence and production of understory vegetation under various stands of a loblolly-shortleaf pine-hardwood forest is described. Variations in timber stand brought about differences in species composition and frequency of occurrence, with woody and forb species being favored under denser timber stands and grasses favored in stands opened by cutting. Forage production of all forage classes increased in proportion to reduction of timber stand factors. Soil and topographic factors influenced production, but were apparently overshadowed by timber stand factors.
10.2307/3669606|Chromosome synapsis at diakinesis during microsporogensis was observed for Cucurbita digitata, C. palmata, C. cylindrata and reciprocal F<sub>1</sub> hybrids between these species. The high degree of homology between their chromosomes, and the fertility of the hybrids suggest that these taxa are geographical isolates of a common species.
10.2307/3669607|The seasonal ecology of three playa lakes of Class VI of Reeves (Jour. Geol., 1966) has been studied in Eastern New Mexico. A limnological survey of an additional 20 lakes was made, largely from the high plains of Texas. A total of 62 taxa of macroscopic animals was collected. The physico-chemical features of the lakes were briefly described. An obligate lentic fauna, chiefly phyllopod crustaceans, is numerically dominant during the early phases of lake filling; this is followed by a facultative fauna dominated by insects. Some variation was noted among the lakes surveyed with chironomids, oligochaetes or both occurring as a restricted fauna in several lakes.
10.2307/3669608|A total of 143 bats representing 27 species of the Family Phyllostomidae were analyzed for their karyotypes. Analysis of karyotypic variation revealed no population or geographic variation and, within a given genus, only variation in the Y chromosome(s) of Artibeus was found. Based on similarity of karyotypes the following seven groups are evident: (A) Pteronotus; (B) Choeronycteris, Choeroniscus and Carollia; (C) Leptonycteris, Glossophaga, Phyllostomus, Trachops and Macrotus; (D) Micronycteris; (E) Anoura; (F) Artibeus, Sturnira, Vampyrops, Chiroderma, Enchisthenes and Centurio; and (G) Uroderma. The Subfamily Sturnirinae is considered to be a synonym of Subfamily Stenoderminae. Subfamily Glossophaginae is considered to be of polyphyletic origin but available data are inadequate for interpretation of their phylogeny. The status of Uroderma as a genus distinct from Artibeus is strongly supported.
10.2307/3669609|The chromosome complements of sampled populations of five species of pocket mice, genus Perognathus, subgenus Perognathus, are described: P. flavus flavus (2n=50), P. merriami merriami (2n=50), P. longimembris pimensis and P. l. bombycinus (2n=56), P. amplus taylori, P. a. rotundus, and P. a. pergracilis (2n=56), and P. formosus melanocaudus (2n=54). Interpopulation chromosome variation has been found for P. amplus. The preliminary extent of chromosome knowledge of these species confirms the original species-groups established by Osgood (1900). The karyotypes of species belonging to the subgenera of Perognathus are quite distinct, but P. formosus tends to bridge the karyotypic gap between them as it does on several other morphological criteria.
10.2307/3669610|Taxonomy and distribution of Loxocemus are reviewed. All specimens are assigned to L. bicolor. This species is known on the Pacific versant from Nayarit, Mexico, to Costa Rica and on the Atlantic versant from Chiapas, Mexico, and Honduras. Sexual dimorphism exists in spurs. No other geographically consistent secondary sexual dimorphism is known. Georgraphic variation exists in several characters of scutellation and relative proportion. Previous authors have proposed dividing Loxocemus into two species, subspecies, or phases, primarily based on supposed dichromatism; these divisions do not correspond with the geographic variation demonstrated in scutellation. Variation in coloration is not dichromatic but gradational. Prior fixing of the type locality of one of the synonyms, Plastoseryx bronni, is untenable.
10.2307/3669611|On three occasions blind snakes were observed crawling in nocturnal raiding columns of N. nigrescens without feeding on the ants or their prey. Neither snakes nor ants seemed disturbed, although a fourth snake following a vocated ant trail was attacked when placed in a raiding column. The latter snake and one of those found in raiding columns (assumed conditioned), along with a blind snake found unassociated with ants (assumed unconditioned), were tested on N. nigrescens and N. opacithorax pheromone and distilled water trails in the laboratory. Conditioned snakes followed the pheromone trails in a significant number of experiments; the unconditioned snake did not. Head-neck rearing, thought to be olfactory orientation behavior, was observed in trail following. Because blind snakes smell army ant trails, are known to feed on ant brood, and were heading toward army ant nests in half the field observations, pheromone trail following may be selectively advantageous for the snakes in locating a large food supply at the ant nest site.
10.2307/3669612|Nests and/or nest-related behaviors are described for Micropterus dolomieui, Semotilus atromaculatus, Nocomis biguttatus, and Campostoma anomalum in a stream in eastern Oklahoma. Behavior of Notropis pilsbryi over a Semotilus atromaculatus nest is described, and comments on reproductive behaviors in this and other species of the subgenus Luxilus (genus Notropis) are given.
10.2307/3668809|In the past 12 years a large collection of fossil horse teeth have been assembled from a ravine on the Central Plateau of Mexico locally named La Carreta near the village of El Ocote, District of San Miguel Allende, Guanajuato, Mexico. The Ocote local fauna is of middle Pliocene (lower Hemphillian) age, and is one of the most important Pliocene vertebrate faunas thus far reported from Mexico. Fossils from Ocote are largely isolated teeth of horses, though some foot and limb bones were recovered and other kinds of mammals found. The teeth are well-preserved but the bones are quite fragile. Such fragility possibly accounts for the large number of isolated teeth and for the scarcity of jaw fragments with cheek teeth in place. Three new species are described, Astrohippus albidens, Nannippus aztecus, and Nannippus hesperides. Further information is provided for Neohipparion otomii Mooser.
10.2307/3668810|North-central Texas includes five counties along the central part of the northern border of Texas. Of the 66 kinds of mammals recorded, 59 are native species and more than a third of these find their eastern or western limits of range in the area. Eastern woodland forms occupy the eastern part of the area, and Great Plains kinds the western. The Red River permits migration of both eastern and western species. Some westward immigration of eastern mammals has occurred in recent years.
10.2307/3668811|Bison cows were individually marked and observed for calf production. Thirteen per cent had calves as two-year-olds. Most of the experimental animals gave birth to their first calf at three years of age. A high percentage of Wichita bison calve every other year. Butchered cow weights show lighter average weights in the autumn following the heavier calf crops of the third, fifth, and seventh years. A limited field experiment on fertility of bison bulls is described. Figures of herd production since 1908, twinning, and first calf arrival dates are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3668812|Data on sex and age were obtained for Gambel quail collected or live-trapped and released in the Rio Grande Valley near Las Cruces, New Mexico, in the period 1959-1962. Sex ratios showed a change of from nearly even among birds-of-the-year to a preponderance of males among birds that had bred at least once. The fall age ratio for all years combined was 3.29 immatures per adult. The decline in this ratio to 1.50 in spring points to considerably higher morality among birds in their first year than in older groups. The general level of the fall age ratio is high in comparison with other populations of western quails, indicating relatively high reproductive success. Moderate variation in the fall age ratio is highly correlated with the amount of rainfall in the preceding May and June. No correlation was found with fall, winter, and/or early spring rainfall, as has been found with populations of this species in Nevada and Arizona. Lack of dependence upon the effects of winter rainfall is not fully understood, although it may be due to irrigation or to a winter climate that permits accumulation of soil moisture.
10.2307/3668813|Two populations of frogs in the Rana pipiens complex coexist in sympatry in the White Mountains of eastern Arizona. The two forms can be readily distinguished on the basis of coloration, dorsal spotting, dorsolateral ridges, proportions, and presence or absence of oviducts in the male. Limited information indicates differences in habitat preference and breeding season between the two forms. Near normal levels of development to larva were obtained in two interpopulation crosses. A single natural hybrid was identified.
10.2307/3668814|Stomach analysis was done on 267 young-of-year longnose gar, Lepisosteus osseus, (17-276 mm, total-length) taken from Lake Texoma, May 8 to August 23, 1965. Feeding apparently occurred at the surface to a considerable degree, and occurred more actively at night than during the day. Gar in the initial feeding stages (17-21 mm, total-length) fed on a wide variety of items, including entomostracans, insects, and fish. Excepting the initial feeding stage, young-of-year fishes were the predominant food items in gar of all sizes. Menidia audens represented 84%, by number, of the fishes that had been eaten. Evidence indicates that there is some degree of competition for M. audens between young gar and the young of certain game fishes.
10.2307/3668815|Three species of blister beetles (Meloidae) were fed to Lepomis cyanellus. The fish were allowed to feed naturally on live, dead and disguised blister beetles as well as members of the families Tettigoniidae and Cantharidae as controls. L. cyanellus consistently took then released the blister beetles but retained the other insects.
10.2307/3668816|A meristic study was conducted on the anal, dorsal, and pectoral fin rays of the redbelly dace, Chrosomus erythrogaster. A sample of 900 specimens represented three equal-sized age groups collected from the headwaters of a spring-fed stream, Johnson County, Oklahoma. It was found that the mean number of dorsal (10) and anal (11) fin rays rarely varied more than 1. In contrast, the number of pectoral rays were extremely variable, and there was a highly significant difference between the mean number of pectoral rays in the 0 age group and those of the two older age groups.
10.2307/3668817|Mean distance measurements between winterfat (Eurotia lanata) and saltsage (Atriplex nuttallii) plants in stands of different densities due to grazing history were used to determine adequate plot size to detect density and frequency differences. The plot size which best estimated the densities and frequencies of these two species was 2 to 2 2/3 times mean inter-plant distances. Distribution of these species, as reflected by the test used, was random for winterfat and regular for saltsage. The common practice of using a standard plot to sample vegetation of the same size, growth form and stratum was not substantiated for this vegetation. Even the same species in areas alike except for different grazing histories gave significant differences in optimum plot size.
10.2307/3668818|The Palo Duro Canyon of the Texas Panhandle provides moisture and soil gradients which affect the distribution of vegetation. This study of Juniperus in the Canyon was undertaken to determine the nature and extent of hybridization among the species with emphasis on the relation between ecologic conditions and species composition of juniper populations. Two apparently distinct species complexes are found in the Canyon. The first involves Juniperus deppeana-pinchotti-monosperma; the second, Juniperus virginiana-scopulorum. While the mesic J. deppeana is neither in nor near the Palo Duro Canyon, some of its genes are apparently present in populations of J. pinchotii. Populations of J. pinchotii most resembling J. deppeana are in mesic sites within the Canyon, while those populations most resembling J. monosperma occupy more xeric sites. In the second complex, no typical J. virginiana is found in or near the Canyon; however, populations most resembling it are located in the mesic sites and those resembling J. scopulorum are in the more xeric sites. The Canyon junipers consist of J. pinchotti, J. monosperma, J. scopulorum. Also present in the Canyon are junipers intermediate between the nomenclatural type of J. pinchotii and J, deppeana, and junipers intermediate between J. scopulorum and J. virginiana.
10.2307/3668923|Senecio mutabilis Greenm. forms a bridge between Senecio neomexicanus Gray (section Tomentosi), Senecio tridenticulatus Rydb. (section Aurei) and Senecio multilobatus T. & G. (section Lobati). A key is provided for the separation of these species, and maps indicate distributions and areas of morphological intergradation. The nature of the intergradant populations is described. It is pointed out that treating these senecios as infraspecific taxa of a single species would solve no problems because each in turn intergrades with other senecios.
10.2307/3668924|Pilularia americana A. Br., was investigated in the laboratory in an effort to determine the factors influencing its restriction to semipermanent ponds in the granitic areas of Burnet and Llano Counties, Texas. Soporophytes transplanted to various soils and under various levels of submergence showed a broad range of tolerance but were strongly inhibited in development in calcareous soils. The sporophytes did not develop sporocarps in rapidly drying soils and were killed by complete desiccation. The spores germinated under a range of photoperiod-temperature conditions, but spore germination was inhibited by calcareous soils and by certain other edaphic conditions. Sporocarps which developed in the laboratory under a range of conditions yielded viable spores. The niche of Pilularia americana restricts it in Texas to semipermanent pools on acidic, granitic soils. This specialized niche may play a major role in the restricted distribution of P. americana throughout its range.
10.2307/3668925|A new chlorococcalean alga, Oocystis polymorpha, a contaminant in a photosynthetic gas exchanger at Brooks Air Force Base, is described.
10.2307/3668926|The affinities of Emorya to Buddleia are discussed. The chromosome count is reported as 2n = 38. Crystals in the form of branching druses unreported in Buddleioideae are observed in leaf and perianth epidermis and mesophyll. Pollen grains are found to be 4-colporate and are compared with those of related genera. The possible ancestry of the genus is discussed.
10.2307/3668927|Intensive ecological studies were conducted on the high plains of eastern Wyoming from March through September, 1966, and in June, 1967. Snaptrap and livetrap plots were utilized to sample rodent populations in various plant communities found in the area. Habitat affinities of 18 species of rodents were elucidated. Thirteen-lined ground squirrels, black-tailed prairie dogs, plains harvest mice, and silky and olive-backed pocket mice were associated with the various grass communities of the region. Spotted ground squirrels, Ord's kangaroo rats, and plains pocket mice were associated with the Sage-Grass, Yucca-Grass, and sand dune communities. Western harvest mice occurred in the Sage-Grass and Yucca-Grass communities. Prairie voles were associated with Sage-Grass and Prairie Sand Reed-Grama Grass communities. Deer mice, northern grasshopper mice, and hispid pocket mice were found in nearly every type of community sampled. Bushy-tailed wood rats were captured only in the Mountain Mahogany-Juniper-Grass community. The only communities in which house mice were taken were those of the sand dunes. Fox squirrels were restricted to the North Platte River drainage. Northern pocket gophers were found in most communities except those where plains pocket gophers were abundant such as barrow pits and sandhills grasslands along the Wyoming-Nebraska boundary.
10.2307/3668928|The Rocky Mountain mule deer, Odocoileus hemionus hemionus is presently established naturally in Oklahoma only in the foothill region in the northwestern corner of Cimarron County. In 1965, sixty-five mule deer from northwestern Colorado were released into four areas approximately 200 miles east of this natural mule deer range in Oklahoma. The study objective was identification of mule deer habitat based upon the determination of mule deer food plants in Cimarron County, and then to determine the presence of these food plants in the release area. The presence of these food plants may be taken as an aid in identifying mule deer habitat within the state. Twenty-seven food plants were identified as follows: 7 (25.9%) browse, 16 (59.2%) forbs, and 4(14.5%) grasses. A number of plants serving as food staples for mule deer are of restricted distribution within Oklahoma, being found only on the mesas of Cimarron County. Only one browse species, skunkbush, was found common to both Cimarron County and the release area. A single use of the plant food was observed. Five sightings were reported to have been made of the translocated mule deer after their release three years ago. All were made within approximately one mile of the nearest release site and within about one month of the release dates. A 6.1% mortality rate from unknown causes was reported during this time. No historical evidence was found to suggest that Rocky Mountain mule deer were ever established in association with the type of vegetation characteristic of the release area.
10.2307/3668929|When identical biomasses but different numbers of large and small age group II channel catfish were stocked in 2 polyethylene-lined ponds and fed pellets during spring and summer months, individual large fish grew consistently more than small fish but total gains of the more numerous small fish were greater. Difference in size of age group II fish appeared not to inhibit growth of the small fish. When 179 large fish were stocked in 2 ponds and 179 small fish in each of 2 ponds and fed at the same rate, large fish gained more weight than small fish. When 200 age group I and 50 age group III fish, with an initial difference in mean weight of 157.1 grams, were stocked together and given supplemental feed, a 1-gram difference in initial weight was associated with a final difference in weight gain of 1.9 grams. When 600 age group I fish were stocked with 50 age group III fish, growth of the large fish was similar to that achieved in other ponds but the final individual weight of age group I fish was approximately 50% less than at the lower stocking rate (200 fish). Rates of feed conversions, number of grams of protein and kilocalories required to produce a pound of gain were not as efficient as those obtained by stocking only group I fish. Competition under our experimental conditions appeared to be greater with increased numbers of fish rather than between fish of different sizes.
10.2307/3668930|Roentgen-ray photography was used to analyze the inter- and intrapopulational variation of vertebral numbers of the yoke darter. Etheostoma juliae. Means of vertebral numbers between river systems, among age groups, and within an age group are compared. Significant differences of mean vertebral numbers exists among populations within a river system, and means of vertebral counts from the most downstream collection are significantly lower than those of other collections. Size-vertebrae correlations are significant within some age groups. Comparisons of mean vertebral counts among different intrapopulational age groups give significant differences, and vertebral counts are frequently different between the same age groups of interpopulational samples. The differences observed are considered to signify different or changing environments during the sensitive period of development and genetic diversity.
10.2307/3668931|Both Niptus abstrusus from Fern Cave in Texas and N. absconditus from Grutas de Xoxafi in Hidalgo are described as new species. The 5 species of Niptus occuring in North America are keyed.
10.2307/3669219|Sixty-five fossil Peromyscus mandibles from the Friesenhahn Cave fauna of Texas were analyzed. The material includes five species: P. maniculatus, P. cf. eremicus, P. leucopus, P. cf. boylii, and P. gossypinus. Paleoecological interpretations are discussed.
10.2307/3669220|An analysis of the ecological distribution in the Sandia Mountains, New Mexico, of five species of Peromyscus (P. maniculatus, P. leucopus, P. boylii, P. truei, and P. difficilis) is presented. Variables considered include elevation, exposure, vegetation, and mammalian associates. The five species occur sympatrically, but generalized ecological separations can be seen.
10.2307/3669221|Skinned carcasses of 126 winter-trapped mink (Mustela vison) were classified as juveniles and adults by means of a combination of reported aging methods. The percentage of the sample that could have been aged accurately by using each method of age determination singly was determined. Methods involving the baculum, jugal-squamosal sutures, lateral supra-sesamoid tubercles, region of the epiphyseal closure of the femur, and posterior edge of the ischium were found to be most useful for aging mink. Age determination by dry lens weight was attempted but was found inapplicable under the condition by which mink were obtained.
10.2307/3669222|The ecological and reproductive behavior of the cryptic species Hyla chrysoscelis and H. versicolor was examined in two sympatric localities and in one allopatric H. chrysoscelis locality. An analysis of the stomach contents of both species at one locality suggests that proportionately more H. chrysoscelis are eating arboreal insects, and proportionately more H. versicolor are eating terrestrial insects. The two species may be avoiding complete overlap of their niches in this way. There was a significant statistical, although not absolute, difference between the two species in the positions of the males calling around the breeding ponds; H. chrysoscelis tends to call from trees or bushes, while H. versicolor tends to call from the ground. A relationship between the ecological and reproductive behavior is discussed in terms of natural selection working in the same direction for both in each species. Limited relative humidity data, general geographic distribution of the two species, and the ground versus tree differences in food habits and calling position suggest that relative humidity is a key factor involved in these ecological and reproductive differences. It is thought that H. chrysoscelis can tolerate or may prefer lower relative humidities than H. versicolor. Two factors that were thought to affect the trill rates of both species were analyzed. High positive correlations between temperature and trill rate were found in regression analyses for both species. No correlation between body size and trill rate was found for either species. Population differences in the percentage of individuals using either the upper or lower harmonic as the dominant frequency of the mating call may prove to be of significance in the sympatric relations of the two species. Two populations of H. chrysoscelis sympatric with H. versicolor had mean trill rates 7% and 10% faster than the mean trill rate of an alloptric H. chrysoscelis population. It is suggested that reinforcement for differences in trill rate is occurring where the two species are sympatric.
10.2307/3669223|More than 1500 measurements were made of mature eggs from females obtained from two populations of central Texas darters (Etheostoma spectabile from the Llano River at Junction and Etheostoma lepidum from the South Concho River 4 miles south of Christoval). Junction eggs averaged 1.515  0.002 mm and those from the South Concho 1.301  0.031 mm. Female size did not seem to influence egg size, with small eggs as likely in large as in small females. Eggs from females collected in November and April were smaller than those from fish of the same population collected in December through March. More than 2500 counts were made of egg complements of females from the same two populations. The number of eggs increased geometrically with female size, and the rate of increase approximates a squared relationship. Apparently digestive absorptive surface is more limiting than coelomic space. The largest females may have fewer eggs than medium sized females, especially toward the end of the breeding season. Females collected in February and adjacent months have more eggs than those obtained in other months. The difference is caused by more eggs in equivalent sized females.
10.2307/3669224|Three sarcoptiform mites, Caloglyphus boharti, Glyphanoetus nomiensis, and Histiostoma inquilinus, are described herein. The first is known to associate only with the alkali bee, Nomia melanderi Ckll., in central Wyoming, the second with N. melanderi in Wyoming and with N. nortoni Cress, in southern Louisiana, and the third with Xenoglossa strenua (Cress.) in Maryland.
10.2307/3669225|Chromosome numbers determined on North American material are reported for: Cypripedium acaule (2n = 20), C. arietinum (2n = 20), C. candidum (2n = 20), C. fasciculatum (2n = 20), C. passerinum (2n = 20), C. pubescens (2n = 20), C. regale (2n = 20), Dactylorhiza aristata (2n = 42), Galearis spectabilis (2n = 42), Ponerorchis rotundifolia (2n = 42), Gymnadenia clavellata (2n = 40), Limnorchis dilatata ssp. dilatata and ssp. albiflora (2n = 42), L. saccata (2n = 42), L. hyperborea (2n = 84), Lysiella obtusata (2n = 42), Coeloglossum viride ssp. bracteatum (2n = 40), Blephariglottis lacera (2n = 42), Goodyera oblongifolia (2n = 22), G. repens ssp. ophioides (2n = 30), Corallorhiza maculata (2 = 42) and C. striata (2n = 42). Three new combinations are proposed: Limnorchis dilatata ssp. albiflora (Cham.) Lve & Simon, L. saccata (Greene) Lve & Simon and Goodyera repens ssp. ophioides (Fern.) Lve & Simon. The authors emphasize the importance of distinguishing several genera instead of the collective Orchis and Habenaria of recent American authors. They also point out that western specimens identified as Limnorchis hyperborea may sometimes represent the hybrid L. dilatata ssp. albiflora  L. stricta, and mention observations indicating need for a revision of the genus Goodyera.
10.2307/3669226|The density and age distribution of redberry juniper on an isolated butte were determined to learn the possible origin and direction of spread of the juniper. The northern half of butte supported the denser stands. The densest stand was in the northwest corner of the top but the oldest trees were found on northwest mid-slopes indicating the northwestern part of butte as center of distribution and possible source of younger junipers found downslope.
10.2307/3669227|Bacillus uniflagellatus, a previous unreported airborne bacterial contaminant, subsequently isolated from soil samples in New Mexico and Arizona, has unusual features which include its motility by means of a single polar flagellum and its failure to grow on citrate agar following growth on blood agar. Physiological tests support its unique taxonomic position.
10.2307/3668905|The purpose of this study was to inventory and analyze the compositional structure of the vegetation and also to attempt to discern causal environmental factors influencing species distributions within the loessial region of north-western Kansas and southwestern Nebraska. The study was limited to areas of native vegetation that had not been disturbed by burning, grazing of domestic livestock, periodical mowing or by other activities of man for a period of not less than 15 or 20 years. The family composition of the vascular plants in the loessial region indicated that 23.5% of the vegetation was in the family Gramineae, while Compositae, Fabaceae, and Euphorbiaceae were represented by 21%, 10.3% and 5.6% respectively. The dominant grasses and forbs in the loessial area varied as a result of remnant stand exposure, slope, and position on slope. Blue grama (Bouteloua gracilis) and big bluestem (Andropogon gerardi) were dominant on dry level uplands while very-dry steep upper slopes afforded side-oats grama (Bouteloua curtipendula) and little bluestem (Andropogon scoparius) with greatest success. All four of these species were prominent on gentle upper slopes and gentle lower slopes, which were considered dry-mesic in moisture status. The mesic lowlands supported stands of big bluestem and western wheatgrass (Agropyron smithii). Most species of forbs and grasses were distributed in response to a topographic gradient, which influenced site moisture conditions.
10.2307/3668906|The Presidio area in Texas is now being studied in detail for the effects of pesticides upon the ecosystem. A typical irrigated field was studied for the effects of pesticides on bacterial populations from June through August 1966. Bacterial population numbers were found to fluctuate directly with the influences of irrigation. Soil that was not irrigated but had adequate moisture for bacterial growth yielded an inverse relation between pesticide levels and bacterial numbers. A connection between bacterial populations and pesticide breakdown was suggested. Microbial numbers and pesticide levels were examined in a stagnate body of water located adjacent to cultivated fields. Pesticide levels and bacterial counts were found to vary directly with silt washed into the pond from adjacent areas following substantial rainfalls.
10.2307/3668907|Rodents alter the atmospheric conditions in artificial burrows by lowering the partial pressure of oxygen by 10-15 mm Hg and increasing carbon dioxide levels to 0.5-1.5 volumes %. Condensed water is present in the burrows at all times independent of outside humidity. Ammonia levels did not rise above 100 parts per million because the rodents defecated and probably urinated above ground in this system. Presence of a rodent in the burrow does not significantly affect its temperature. Artificial burrows of nocturnal rodents exhibit greater temperature fluctuation than those of diurnal rodents. Burrow temperatures of nocturnal rodents average higher than those of diurnal rodents. Presence of more than one rodent in a single burrow magnifies the drop in oxygen and rise in carbon dioxide as does prolonged rain.
10.2307/3668908|Aggressive behavior among white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) was observed during a 2-year period on the Rob and Bessie Welder Wildlife Refuge, San Patricio County, Texas. Observations were made from towers and vehicles. Most incidents involving the use of antlers were pushing contests which possibly served to establish hierarchic organization. Only 8 of 94 antler contests were considered to be malicious in which some degree of belligerence occurred. Aggressive behavior in which antlers were used was observed during all months of the year but hostile fights occurred only during the mating season. Hoof fights by bucks occurred when antlers were in the velvet stage or were absent. Hoof fights by does occurred in all months except December and January. Time-of-day, cold fronts, wind speed, cloud cover, and moon phase did not consistently affect aggression by bucks in the same way. Below average temperatures were correlated with an increase in frequency of aggression by bucks. Aggression involving the use of both antlers and hooves followed a uniform pattern with little variation in style.
10.2307/3668909|Aquatic habitats in the Cuatro Cinegas basin, central Coahuila, Mxico, range from springs, through permanent streams and lakes, to ephemeral playas. There has been much disturbance through canalization, but most of the springs originally led via streams to closed saline lakes. A sequential change in ionic composition occurs with evaporation and concentration throughout such a series. Most waters are dominated by Ca<sup>++</sup> and <tex-math>$\text{SO}_{4}{}^{--}$</tex-math>, and especially at their spring origins; with evaporation this changes to a dominance of Mg<sup>++</sup> and <tex-math>$\text{SO}_{4}{}^{--}$</tex-math>, and a shift from a sulfato-carbonate water to a sulfato-chloride type. The Ca:Mg ratio is remarkably decreased in the more concentrated water. Total EDTA hardness ranged from 490 to 66,200 mg/liter, indicating the spectrum of chemical habitats represented. Most waters were similar at their spring origins, however, with hardness averaging near 1,200 mg/liter.
10.2307/3668910|A fixed station radiotracking system for studying time-space aspects of deer behavior is described. Performance and problems of development are discussed. The system uses large unidirectional Yagi type antennas so arranged that peak signals and nulls are read without rotating the unit. A keying type transmitter is used. Positional fixes are solved with a computer and fix data are stored on IBM cards. Bearings can be replicated with a standard deviation of one degree, bearing accuracy of the prototype unit is plus or minus two degrees and the standard deviation of estimates of position is less than 300 feet out to a range of one and one-fourth miles. Test transmitters average 76 days of a theoretical 105 day duration.
10.2307/3669245|The taxonomic history and status of the long-eared Myotis of the auriculus-apache complex is reviewed. Originally named as subspecies of M. evotis, these bats currently are referred to the species M. keenii, from which they differ in a number of external, cranial, dental, and bacular characters. Also, they are separated geographically from the nearest known record of keenii by approximately 500 miles. It is herein concluded that M. auriculus represents a distinct species of the evotis group.
10.2307/3669246|Classification of the small Middle American Artibeus is discussed. A basic differentiating character in the group is the degree of development of the heel or talon on the first upper molar. This character serves to divide these bats into two groups. In one, the heel is narrow and comprises about 15 percent of the total width of the tooth; in the other, the heel is broader and comprises about 28 percent of the total width. Among Middle American species, only A. watsoni (auct.) falls in the first group, along with the South American A. glaucus, A. cinereus, and A. rosenbergi. In the second group are the Middle American A. aztecus, A. toltecus and A. phaeotis and the South American A. quadrivittatus. This is essentially the grouping proposed by Knud Andersen in 1908. Geographic variation and speciation in A. aztecus and A. toltecus are discussed and three new subspecies, Artibeus aztecus minor from the highlands of the Central American Core, Artibeus aztecus major from the Cordillera Talamanca of Costa Rica and Panam, and Artibeus toltecus hesperus from the west coast of Middle America, are described.
10.2307/3669247|A comparative ecological study was conducted on kinosternid turtles (Kinosternon subrubrum hippocrepis, Kinosternon flavescens flavescens, Sternothaerus odoratus, and Sternothaerus carinatus carinatus) in Oklahoma from 1956 to 1960. Habitat, temperature, movements, diel cycle periodicity and growth were investigated from seven natural populations. Laboratory observations on habitat preference and temperature were studied. Kinosternon flavescens prefers temporary bodies of water, such as mudholes and farm ponds, while Sternothaerus odoratus and Sternothaerus carinatus prefer permanent running water as rivers and creeks. Kinosternon subrubrum has a broad preference for habitats and is found in almost any type of water. The thermoactivity range was broader in Sternothaerus than in Kinosternon. Sternothaerus has a longer annual activity period than Kinosternon. Light intensity is perhaps an important factor influencing diel cycle, since these turtles are photophobic. The patterns of movement in the turtles indicated limited activity ranges. The growth rate is faster in turtles with carapace lengths between 2 and 6 cm, after which the growth decreases rapidly.
10.2307/3669248|Following scute removal, Terrapene ornata desiccates at a greater rate than normal animals with scutes. Experimental animals with all their scutes removed lose about 26% of their initial weight after six days of desiccation: controls lose 3%. Terrapene without scutes and exposed to direct sunlight warm slower than controls. In addition, experimental animals without scutes lose heat faster on cooling. The scutes of turtles retard water loss through the bone and aid in temperature regulation.
10.2307/3669249|World-wide troglobite (obligate cavernicole) distribution patterns are reviewed. The troglobite faunas of the Edwards Plateau of Texas and the Sierra de El Abra of Mexico are compared and related to the world-wide distributions. Striking differences exist between temperate and tropical cave communities. Temperate caves contain far more troglobites than tropical caves. Terrestrial troglobites in particular are uncommon in tropical caves; most tropical troglobites are aquatic. Several suggestions are offered in explanation of these disparities. The paucity of tropical troglobites is possibly a reflection of the higher energy input into tropical caves which lessens the selection pressures for energy-economizing troglobite adaptations. Consequently, evolutionary rates are slowed, and troglobites appear later in tropical caves than in temperate caves of lower energy input. Abundance of terrestrial troglobites in temperate caves has resulted largely from the effects of Pleistocene glaciation which removed surface faunas leaving populations in protective cave environments to evolve in geographical isolation. The absence of these effects in tropical areas and the nature of the tropical climate permit continuing gene exchange between cave and surface populations preventing speciation. Most tropical troglobites are aquatic since aquatic populations may be geograhically isolated in caves by means ineffective in the isolation of terrestrial populations.
10.2307/3669251|Polanisia dodecandra (L.) DC. riograndensis Iltis, ssp. nov., geographically restricted to the Rio Grande Valley of Texas and Mexico, differs by pink or purple flowers, rounded bracts, and strongly blistered seeds from the other, more widespread subspecies. A detailed description, distribution map, illustration of seeds of this and related taxa, and citation of specimens is given.
10.2307/3669252|Inonotus arizonicus is described as a new species associated with decay in southwestern sycamores. It appears to be an important cause of heartrot in living Platanus wrightii in southeastern Arizona. Diagnostic characters are the annual, brown basidiocarps, hooked setae, and small golden yellow spores.
10.2307/3668868|Starch gel electrophoretic analysis of crude seed extracts of six species of Cucurbita, including five cultivars of two species and one species hybrid, reveals six distinguishable leucine aminopeptidase mobilities. Two cultivars of C. maxima were found to be polymorphic for this enzyme. Certain species were monomorphic and others polymorphic for alpha-naphthyl acetate esterases. With one possible exception, the species could be identified on the basis of their electrophoretic phenotypes. The systematic and evolutionary significance of the reported enzymatic variants are discussed in terms of the genetic differences they might reflect.
10.2307/3668869|Naturally occurring seedlings of shrub live oak (Quercus turbinella) and Emory oak (Q. emoryi) are uncommon, but a moderate population was observed in August 1963 on chaparral strips burned 1 and 2 years previously. Ninetyfour shrub live oak and 47 Emory oak seedlings were tagged. After 3 years, survival of shrub live oak seedlings was 26 percent, and Emory oak, 27 percent. Nearly all mortality was attributed to drought. It is hypothesized that rainfall is suitable for oak seedling germination and establishment only 1 year in 10. Critical moisture values suggested are 15 inches or more of October-March precipitation, followed by 10 inches or more of July-September rainfall.
10.2307/3668870|Animals were collected, subjected to in vivo colchicine treatment and red bone marrow cells were stained with giemsa. Photomicrographs and karyograms were prepared for all seven subspecies of the Townsend pocket gopher, Thomomys townsendii. A diploid chromosome number of 76 was found for six subspecies, T. t. bachman,i T. t. elkoensis, T. t. nevadensis, T. t. owyhensis, T. t. relictus and T. t. townsendii. The seventh subspecies, T. t. similis, has a 2n chromosome number of 40 which, along with other unique morphological traits, indicates either confusion with the Thomomys talpoides complex or consideration of taxonomic revision to Thomomys similis.
10.2307/3668871|Four species of owls (Great Horned Owl, Bubo virginianus; Longeared Owl, Asio otus; Burrowing Owl, Speotyto cunicularia and Barn Owl, Tyto alba) which inhabit the same grassland habitats in northcentral Colorado were investigated to determine differences and similarities in feeding ecology. Considerable overlap in prey species was found in the four owls. However, the average estimated prey weight was significantly different for each owl species. Differences in activity periods, foraging methods and predator-prey size relationships may all function in reducing interspecific competition among these owls.
10.2307/3668872|An ecological appraisal of blue-winged and green-winged teal in the early fall months was conducted on the playa lake environments of the Southern High Plains in Lubbock County, Texas. The study coincided with the second year of an experimental teal hunting season. Food habits of teal from both modified and natural playa lakes were compared to determine preferences. This information, coupled with census data, indicated that teal are better maintained on the natural playas where smartweeds and other important food plants may be easily selected. Hunters shot an average of 5 teal during the 9-day experimental season. Cultural practices aimed at modifying playa basins for agricultural uses apparently reduce carrying capacities for waterfowl.
10.2307/3668873|Between 1964 and 1967, spring densities of Cnemidophorus tigris in four study areas in southern Nevada ranged from 3-8 per acre. Estimated biomass ranged from around 43 to 114 g/acre. The sex ratio was 1:1. Minimal annual survival of adults was 54-60%, and life-spans of at least 7 years are postulated. An undetermined proportion of mature females laid two clutches of eggs in 1965, but the general pattern was one clutch of 2-4 eggs per year. Large females produced more eggs than small ones. Occasionally females 9-10 months of age laid eggs, but sexual maturity normally was attained at about 21 months. By assuming that all mature females laid two egg clutches in 1965 our fecundity estimates could be approximately reconciled with the observed size and age composition of populations in the spring of 1966. Possible compensatory errors in this analysis are discussed.
10.2307/3668874|The herpetofauna of the Slaton quarry of Lubbock County, Texas consists of at least 18 forms, including 6 amphibians and 12 reptiles. None of these are thought to be extinct. Most of these animals lived near the edge of a shallow Pleistocene lake, but a few lived in a nearby area of sandy flats with some rocky outcrops. The herpetological members of the Slaton local fauna would not typically be found living together today as some Austroriparian forms are present among a mainly Kansan assemblage. The southern forms indicate that winters were milder than at present.
10.2307/3668875|Sexual maturity of white bass, Roccus chrysops (Rafinesque), was studied in Beaver Reservoir, Arkansas, during the 1967 spawning season. Ovum diameters along with morphological appearance were used to determine size of maturity and to arbitrarily stage ovum development. Most spawning females were in age group II. No age group I females were mature.
10.2307/3668876|A study of benthic macroinvertebrates in a 102 ha lake was conducted from March, 1966 through February, 1967. Of the thirty taxa collected, seven (Chaoborus punctipennis (Say), Caenis, Sialis, Hexagenia, Hyalella azteca (Saussure), Branchiura sowerbyi Beddard, and Tendipedidae) comprised 82.74 to 99.51% of the total organisms collected monthly. Seven taxa of oligochaetes were collected, the most abundant being B. sowerbyi. Abundance of C. punctipennis increased as depth of water increased. Depth distribution of Tendipedidae was unclear since the family was treated as a single taxon. Other taxa, except Hexagenia which is treated in another presentation were not abundant enough in collections to elicit a distinct depth distribution. Variation and abundance of fauna may have been limited by silt depositions during run-off. The amount of silt was apparent by the abundance of Hexagenia.
10.2307/3668877|Distribution, seasonal abundance, and ecological notes on 122 taxa of benthic macroinvertebrates collected in the Otter Creek Drainage system are discussed. The freshwater nemertean, Prostoma rubrum (Leidy), and the oligochaetes, Tubifex templetoni Southern, Dero digitata (Muller), Nais variabilis Piguet, Pristina breviseta Bourne, P. longiseta Leidyi Smith, P. longidentata Harman, and two species of Pristina new to science are reported from Oklahoma for the first time.
10.2307/3668955|Geographic variation was studied in 238 specimens of Peromyscus maniculatus from the Llano Estacado. All specimens are assigned to P. m. luteus. Secondary sexual dimorphism was noted in one population. Size decreases from north to south and from west to east, and is seemingly correlated with temperature clines. Pelage color is variable and does not seem to be closely correlated with soil color. Evidence indicates that deer mice on the Llano Estacado apparently do not interbreed with P. m. blandus to the south and southwest.
10.2307/3668956|Field work in high mountains from Gothic to just southeast of Monarch Pass in central Colorado has brought the known geographic ranges of the sibling chipmunks Eutamias umbrinus montanus and E. q. quadrivittatus together, and led to better understanding of their ecology. Suggestions of John A. White are confirmed, that two species replace one another geographically and that the baculum is distinctive in each. In the zone of contact our specimens of the two species, known by their bacula, are indistinguishable in total length, coloration, and even cranial breadth. The apparent intermediacy is perhaps a result of some former genetic introgression or of convergent evolution. We draw attention to two large specimens from Bondad, which may prove referable to an undescribed kind.
10.2307/3668957|The reproductive success of wild female Spermophilus tridecemlineatus was studied from June, 1963 to June, 1967, in northern Texas. An analysis of the 1967 population showed that of 27 residents, 2 (1 male, 1 female) were adults present in 1963 and one was an immigrant male. The remaining 24 individuals had pedigrees tracing to four females present in 1963. Thus, 89% of the 1967 squirrels were either directly or indirectly descended from only 20% (4 individuals) of the 1963 resident female population. The remaining 80% (16 individuals) of the 1963 resident females were not successful in leaving genotypes to the 1967 population.
10.2307/3668958|Flaming Gorge Dam on the Green River, Utah was closed in November, 1962. Studies of fish populations from the dam downstream to Ouray, Utah, were conducted from July, 1963, to October, 1966. The objectives of these studies were: 1) to study changes in river environment associated with closure of the dam; 2) to determine species composition, distribution, and abundance of fishes in the study section; and 3) to compare 1963-1966 distribution of fishes with that reported in pre-impoundment collections. A total of 24,040 fish consisting of 9 indigenous and 12 exotic species was taken in 667 collections by electrofishing gear, gill nets, seines, and fry gear. Flaming Gorge Dam has caused a major change in the ecology of the downstream Green River by alteration of seasonal flows and water-temperature patterns as far as the mouth of the Yampa River, 65 miles below the dam. As a result, native fish populations, particularly in the first 26 miles below the dam, have been largely replaced by introduced rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri). Below the Yampa River mouth, fish populations were similar to those reported during the pre-impoundment years. During years of high summer discharge from the dam with resultant lower water temperatures (1964 and 1966), no reproduction of any native fishes was found in the Green River above the mouth of the Yampa River.
10.2307/3668959|Lyon County Lake was drained during the early fall, 1962, as the initial step in a program to rehabilitate its fishery. Beginning in March, 1963, and continuing through June, 1967, variations in physicochemical conditions, primary productivity, and the relative abundance and composition of zooplankton were recorded for the purpose of determining changes in these features during and immediately following reflooding. The annual mean dissolved oxygen, phosphate, specific conductance and gross primary productivity during the final year of the study were significantly lower than previously recorded values. Twenty species of Cladocera and fifteen species of Copepoda have appeared in townet samples. In general, density and biomass decreased throughout the study. Initially, Cladocera were approximately twice as abundant as the Copepoda; however, by the final year of the study, their densities were approximately equal but Copepoda biomass was nearly double that of the Cladocera.
10.2307/3668960|The eastermost stand of Pinus ponderosa in South Dakota occurs on Turtle Butte (SE , Sec. 9, and SW  Sec. 10, R75W, T95N), in southern Tripp County. This is 65 km farther east than has previously been reported for this species in South Dakota. Turtle Butte is an escarpment 2 km long and rising rather abruptly 109 m from the flood plain of the nearby Keya Paha River. Pines are most abundant along the rims of the Butte and extend down nearly to the base, mainly confined to coarse-textured substrates. Pines have not become established to any extent on top of the butte where xerophytic steppe vegetation predominates. The average age of P. ponderosa at this location is 56 yr, average height is 7.68 m (25.2 ft), and density is 48 trees/0.1 ha. There is no difference in three growth on NE and SW exposures of the Butte. There is a close relation between average precipitation for the months of March through August and tree growth. Undergrowth vegetation is somewhat typical of xerophytic steppe vegetation often referred to as "mixed prairie."
10.2307/3668961|The purpose of this study was to delineate vegetational communities cartographically within a 176 acre prairie in Trego County, Kansas. The communities were characterized as to vegetational structure, underlying soils, and topographic position. An attempt was also made to discern causal factors influencing species distribution. Seven communities were recognized and mapped onto an aerial photograph. The communities identified were: Buchloe-Bouteloua, Buchloe-Bouteloua-Agropyron, Bouteloua, Bouteloua-Andropogon, Andropogon gerardi, Andropogon scoparius, and Kochia. The communities were found to be primarily the result of a moisture gradient established through the combined effects of topography and soils. Degrees of success varied for all species throughout the moisture gradient, thus, species with similar tolerance were aggregated into communities.
10.2307/3669536|The physical and chemical properties of Heiden-Hunt clay and Tabor fine sandy loam soils are described. In addition, the rooting habits of the dominant perennial grasses growing on the two soil types are discussed. Both horizons of the Heiden-Hunt clay are higher in clay content, organic matter, cation exchange capacity, exchangeable bases, and percent base saturation than corresponding horizons of the Tabor soil. Soil reaction values for the two soils are similar. A mixture of clay minerals occurs in the A horizon of the Tabor soil and extensive weathering is indicated. This weathered condition is not evident in the Heiden-Hunt soil. Perennial grass clones from the clay soil are larger in circumference and contain more tillers per clone than those from the sandy loam. In general, tillers from the Tabor sandyloam support more roots than those of the more clayey Heiden-Hunt. Characteristically, roots grow parallel to the soil surface, above the claypan zone, and the lateral spread is greater in the sandy loam than in the clay soil.
10.2307/3669537|Part II concludes this review. Part I appeared in The South-western Naturalist 14(1): 15-29. Geographic variation and speciation in Artibeus watsoni Thomas and Artibeus phaeotis (Miller) are discussed. The close relationship of A. watsoni and Artibeus glaucus Thomas is emphasized as is their distinctness from Artibeus cinereus Gervais. Three subspecies of A. phaeotis are recognized in Middle America, as follows: A. p. phaeotis in the Gulf-Caribbean versant from Veracruz to Panam; A. p. nanus in the lowlands of western Mxico from Sinaloa to the Isthmus of Tehuantepec; A. p. palatinus, herein described as a new subspecies, in the Pacific lowlands from the Isthmus of Tehuantepec at least to the Rio Jorco east of Puntarenas, Costa Rica.
10.2307/3669538|The author correlates the results of a twenty-one day pitfall trap program, where wolf spiders were trapped from the various habitats of the Moab area, Utah. Species partitioning and biotic associations are discussed for the six species found in the study area. A seemingly habitat restricted color variation of Pardosa sternalis (Thorell) is described.
10.2307/3669540|A series of 10 random samples of a mixed species invertebrate population was taken from each of 13 different habitats. The diversity index <tex-math>$\text{d}=-\Sigma (n_{i}/n)\ \text{log}_{2}\ (n_{i}/n)$</tex-math> was used to obtain diversity values of progressively pooled samples from one through 10 in each habitat. Diversity of progressively pooled samples increased during the first few samples and then reach an asymptote in all 13 habitats.
10.2307/3670196|Two rows of mist nets were maintained for six successive nights in two contrasting environmental situations--Tropical Dry Forest and Tropical Wet Forest. All but a few of the bats captured were banded and released. About 10 per cent of the bats banded were subsequently recaptured. Times of capture were recorded and used to plot activity curves for eight species. Some species of phyllostomid bats are active primarily in the early hours after dusk whereas others are active all night.
10.2307/3670197|Distributions or ranges of American bats have usually been reported as the total rather than the seasonal occurrences. These two are usually quite different. For example, in Arizona there are 28 species of bats, but only 15 species are present for certain in winter. Of these 15, the ranges of 11 are greatly reduced during winter. Distributional maps for bats in Arizona and throughout the Americas for summer and for winter occurrences would be more meaningful.
10.2307/3670198|Uprooting pinyon and juniper trees with a bulldozer for rangeland improvement changed habitat conditions enough to affect populations of several species of small rodents. In general, numbers of resident rodents increased and additional species invaded the treatment areas. Brush and pinon mouse populations were exceptions; they decreased. Additional herbaceous cover and dead trees on the ground were the gross habitat changes associated with population differences.
10.2307/3670199|Mean counts of corpora albicantia of adult mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) (with 95 percent confidence limits) were 1.28 (1.13-1.43) per deer based on 179 sets of ovaries and 1.33 (1.17-1.49) based on 147 sets. Only 1 percent of 15-to 17-month-old deer had apparently conceived as a fawn. Based on 3,879 female mule deer sampled at check stations (1954-1959), the number of yearlings per 100 adults ranged from 29 to 62.
10.2307/3670200|Gerrhonotus lugoi sp. nov., from the Cuatro Cinegas Basin (26 59 North, 102 04 West), Coahuila, Mxico, differs from other members of the genus in having smooth dorsal scales, anterior internasals present, postrostral absent, supranasals not enlarged, suboculars not in contact with lower primary temporals, and color pattern of dorsal crossbands and immaculate lips and venter. A relict species, G. lugoi is possibly derivative of ancestral Gerrhonotus-Elgaria stock isolated in the Cuatro Cinegas Basin since the early Tertiary. Unlike surrounding populations of Gerrhonotus liocephalus, which occur as montane isolates in transition zone forests, G. lugoi inhabits talus slopes in canyon terrain near the desert floor.
10.2307/3670201|Several factors influencing the rate of aerial breathing and metabolism of young-of-year gars were studied. Without access to atmospheric oxygen, the lethal oxygen concentration was found to be approximately 2.45 mg/1 at 73F. The average rate of oxygen consumption of these fishes was 0.295 ml <tex-math>$\text{O}_{2}/\text{gm}/\text{hr}$</tex-math>. Prevention of aerial breathing produced no observable ill effects on the gars tested provided the dissolved oxygen content of the water was above 3 mg/1. Undoubtedly, the gar's air bladder serves a hydrostatic function as well as a respiration function, and thus complicates the analysis of aerial breathing of these fishes. The temperature acclimation time of alligator gar, based on the rate of aerial breathing, requires approximately 48 hours.
10.2307/3670202|A 14 month mark-recapture study using pitfall traps was conducted on the predaceous ground beetle Pasimachus punctulatus. The population was active from March to December with a rise in April (2.2 beetles per m<sup>2</sup>) and a major peak in September, coincident with reproduction (3.5 per m<sup>2</sup>). Spring abundance consisted mostly of overwintered adults; mortality was highest in the fall (35%). Movements, analyzed both spring and fall, were independent of micro-topography and placement of pitfalls. Temperature was considered the ultimate limiting factor on population size and activity. High temperatures were favorable to P. punctulatus, although catch declined at extremes. Rainfall affected density in no consistent manner; its influence was likely due to other contingent factors. Beetle intolerance to crowding indicated intraspecific competition for space as a possible population regulator.
10.2307/3670203|Sphaerolana, new genus, the second known American cirolanid isopod capable of flexing its body into a ball, is described from the Cuatro Cinegas basin, central Coahuila, northern Mxico (type species, S. interstitialis). Two new species, S. interstitialis and S. affinis, both living in sediments of thermal springs, occur in partial sympatry in the area. Comparisons with the European genus Faucheria, and with the genus Creaseriella from Yucatn, Mxico, indicate no close relationships. Most resemblances appear superficial, a result of parallel evolution. Ecology, associated crustacean species, and distribution of the two new forms are discussed.
10.2307/3670204|This study deals with the ecology of temporary ponds in southeastern Louisiana from January 1964 to May 1967. Two categories of basins were recognized on the basis of physical and biotal characteristics. The large, deep, heavily wooded basins exhibited a detritus-based food web derived chiefly from leaf litter. Productivity in the small, shallow, exposed ponds was based on phytoplankton and other aquatic vegetation. Acid, brown-stained water, deficient in calcium and electrolytes, was common to both types. The wooded basins had two flooding periods annually, interrupted by drying in late spring-summer and late fall. Late fall drying of the exposed ponds frequently did not occur. Physico-chemical characteristics of the basin substrates, the surrounding soils, and flooded ponds were investigated. In the wooded ponds I noted a consistent pattern of dissolved oxygen decline following initial flooding; thermal and chemical stratification also occurred. No consistent patterns prevailed in the exposed ponds. A benthic and limnetic fauna of phyllopods, isopods, and amphipods numerically dominated the early fill stages of both pond types. Isopods, amphipods, and insects were dominant in the older ponds. Exposed basins supported a plankton community dominated successively by euglenoids, volvocaceans, desmids, and dinoflagellates. Net phytoplankton was virtually absent from the wooded basins; rotifers, copepods, and cladocerans were abundant. Community metabolism studies showed the exposed ponds to be autotrophic and the shaded ponds consistently heterotrophic in character.
10.2307/3670205|The vegetation of Saratoga Springs and adjacent areas was sampled by means of 1 <tex-math>$\text{meter}^{2}$</tex-math> quadrats placed at 4 meter intervals along randomly located transects. The frequency of occurrence, average percent cover and numbers of perennial species was computed for each community belonging to xerophytic shrub, phreatophytic shrub and marsh vegetation types. Plant communities arranged along moisture and salinity gradients clearly indicate the importance of water availability and salt content of the soil. Xerophytic and phreatophytic shrub communities have fewer perennial species, lower percent cover and a lower standing crop than plant communities within the marsh. In general, plant communities form a vegetation mosaic in the marsh and vegetation belts or zones along sharp environmental gradients (salt concentration and water availability) adjacent to the marsh.
10.2307/3670343|A comparative study of woody riparian vegetation was conducted between the elevations of 1853 and 2463 meters on three slopes of the Black and Sacramento mountain ranges in southern New Mexico. These two north-south oriented ranges are 180 kilometers apart and the study areas were at nearly identical latitudes. East- and west-facing slopes of the Black Range and the west-facing slope of the Sacramento Mountains were sampled. Riparian vegetation on the slopes studied is generally similar and the elevational sequence of species is remarkably uniform. Floristic differences were noted, however, with 23 species being found only in the Black Range study area and 23 species being found only in the Sacramento Mountains study area. Differences in soils may be responsible for many of these floristic differences. The vegetation zones of the Black Range appear to be approximately 150 meters lower than those of the Sacramento Mountains. There is a trend toward shrub dominance of riparian zones at lower and upper elevations in the study areas while trees dominate the intermediate elevations. The west-facing slopes show similarities in average basal area of trees, average numbers of shrubs, and in the ratio of the trees to shrubs per plot at each sampling elevation when compared to the east-facing slope.
10.2307/3670344|The effects of six phenolic compounds on the growth of seedlings of three species of flowering plants important in old-field succession in central Oklahoma were investigated. These compounds were previously found to be produced by several species from the first stage of such succession and to be inhibitory to becteria or higher plants. All six compounds, chlorogenic acid, isochlorogenic acid, gallic acid, gallotannic acid, p-coumaric acid, and p-hydroxybenzaldehyde inhibited Amaranthus retroflexus and Bromus japonicus, two species important in the first stage of old-field succession. On the other hand, Aristida oligantha, the dominant in the second stage of succession, was either stimulated or not affected. The concentrations that caused inhibition were quite low. Chlorogenic acid and isochlorogenic acid were inhibitory to Amaranthus retroflexus at a 0.83  10<sup>-7</sup>M concentration. A 0.83  <tex-math>$10^{-4}\text{M}$</tex-math> concentration of chlorogenic acid stimulated the growth of Aristida oligantha seedlings. Previous work in this laboratory indicated that several species of plants from the first stage of succession were very inhibitory to associated species of the first stage but less so to Aristida oligantha. The responses elicited by the pure compounds in the present study correlated well with the effects caused by the plants which produce them. It is possible, therefore, that the rapid disappearance of the first stage in the successional pattern (2-3 yr) is due to the fact that the species involved eliminate themselves by chemical inhibition, and Aristida oligantha invades simply because it is not harmed by the same inhibitors.
10.2307/3670345|Chromosome numbers are recorded for 72 species of Compositae which occur within or near the Chihuahuan Desert region, including first reports for 19 species. Notable among the listings are counts for Haplopappus gracilis (n = 3), H. cf. spinulosus (n = 5), Tridax petrophila (n = 10, 18), Viguiera ludens (n = 17), Gaillardia suavis (n = 19), Porophyllum greggii (n = 36), Perezia runcinata (n = ca. 27), P. wrightii (n = 27), Lygodesmia ramosissima (n = 9), and L. texana (n = ca. 9). The counts for Gaillardia, Perezia and Lygodesmia appear to represent new base numbers for these genera.
10.2307/3670346|Variation in the pollen morphology of the Dalea mollis-D. neomexicana complex has been studied from collections in the United States. An attempt to correlate the pollen polar length average per specimen with the calyx length was only partially successful. When the collections were plotted geographically by county, the shortest pollen polar length averages (smaller, prolate pollen grains) were concentrated in the Yuma and Colorado deserts with the longer pollen polar length averages (longer, polarly constricted pollen grains) radiating northward into the Mohave Desert and southeastward into the Chihuahuan Desert. The evidence presented indicates that these two species should be tentatively regarded as one species with two varieties--Dalea mollis var. mollis and var. neomexicana--until a more detailed study is made which should include the pollen morphology of plants from the Sonoran and Chihuahuan deserts of Mexico.
10.2307/3670347|Descriptive ethology of Richardson's ground squirrel (Spermophilus richardsoni elegans) was studied for two annual above-ground activity cycles (1967 and 1968). Richardson's ground squirrels studied were located in the Laramie Basin, Albany County, Wyoming. Observed behavior patterns were compared to those of the Uinta ground squirrel (S. armatus) as reported by Balph and Stokes (1963). The postural components of the behavior and circumstances under which these occur appear to be relatively similar between the two ground squirrels. Locomotion, feeding, elimination, grooming, tail-flicking, agonistic, sexual, juvenile behaviors, and general patterns of interspecific behavior seem to be comparable between the two species. However, certain behaviors were noted in Richardson's ground squirrels that were not reported in the Uinta ground squirrel, such a a type of digging and gathering nest materials. Study results showed that relative differences in behavior would probably be more definitive than absolute differences.
10.2307/3670348|Annual reproductive cycles, and seasonal changes in body weight, fat deposition, spleen and adrenal gland weights of 86 golden- mantled ground squirrels (Spermophilus lateralis lateralis) from the Laramie Mountains of southeastern Wyoming (elev. ca. 8500 ft) were investigated from June, 1967 to September, 1968. Males were first collected in late March, females in mid-April. Adult above-ground activity terminated by early September. Testes were at maximum weights and lengths in March and minimum in August. Mature sperm were present in tests tubules during March, April, and May. Testes were scrotal shortly after emergence from hibernation in April and became abdominal in early June. Breeding took place in late April and early May. Parturition occurred approximately a month later. The mean number of embryos was 5.4  0.7 (N=8); of placental scars was 5.9  1.4 (N=24); of young born in the laboratory was 4.3  0.6 (N=3). Mean litter size determined from embryo counts, placental scar counts and young born in captivity was 5.6  1.3 (N=35). Embryo resorption was found in 12.5% of pregnant females. Mean monthly body weights of females exceeded those of males except during April and August. The heaviest female weighed 283 g while the heaviest male weighed 266 g. All animals possessed reserve retroperitoneal fat at the time of emergence from hibernation. By June measurable fat reserves had been depleted. New retroperitoneal fat accumulation commenced in August. No definite differences were apparent between the sexes concerning splenic hypertrophy. Adrenal gland weights were relatively stable during June and July and decreased in August.
10.2307/3670349|Activity patterns of Reithrodontomys megalotis, Microtus ochrogaster, and Peromyscus maniculatus in a relict grassland were investigated utilizing a photographic technique. Reithrodontomys megalotis and Peromyscus maniculatus are shown to be nocturnal while Microtus ochrogaster is largely diurnal. Reithrodontomys megalotis, and Microtus ochrogaster seem to have activity suppressed by moonlight. Rodent activity could not be shown to relate to any specific microclimatological data collected.
10.2307/3670350|Cueve de Abra is in the tropical part of southern Tamaulipas. The cave includes an enormous sinkhole that contains vast numbers of remains of Recent and Pleistocene vertebrates that have not been studied. Remnants of a travertine ledge from a horizontal part of the cave yielded abundant fossils of vertebrates, presumably of late Pleistocene age. Approximately 2,000 jaws represent 25 species of mammals. Most of these live in the vicinity of the cave today but Onychonys leucogaster and Perognathus hispidus do not range so far south, Balantiopteryx io has not been taken so far north, and four other species may not now range so far east. A rice rat, Oryzomys fulvescens, common near the cave today, is not present in the fossil fauna. A new species of pocket mouse, Perognathus huastecensis, is discribed.
10.2307/3670351|Migration of wood warblers was examined in southern Nevada. Definite patterns are evident with spring migration concentrated in the lowlands and fall migration in the lowlands and mountains with some species present in one but not the other. Lowland fall migration occurs after the late summer heat. It is suggested that some species are incapable of withstanding the extreme heat of the desert in early fall.
10.2307/3670352|Karyotypes of three members of the Spea group of spadefoots, Scaphiopus bombifrons, S. hammondii hammondii, and S. h. multiplicatus, are found to be vurtually indistinguishable. The Spea karyotype differs from that of any member of the subgenus Scaphiopus in having one chromosome pair less in the longer group and one additional pair in the shorter group of chromosomes. Aside from the lack of any secondary constrictions, the karyotype of Scaphiopus holbrookii holbrookii is shown to be similar to that of S. h. hurterii. The production of polyploids in both F<sub>1</sub> hybrid and control larvae of two series of S. bombifrons  X S. h. hammondii  is possibly due to inadvertent induction of heat shock.
10.2307/3670353|Gambusia aurata, named for its distinctive golden color, is described from the Ro Tames basin, Tamaulipas, Mxico. Study of the syntypes of Gambusia myersi Ahl, a name formerly applied to the Tames species, shows it to be a synonym of Gambusia affinis holbrooki Girard, and that the types therefore did not come from Mxico. Both sexes and the gonopodia of myersi and aurata are figured. One hybrid between the local form of Gambusia affinis and Gambusia aurata is described and illustrated.
10.2307/3669882|The biology, taxonomy and distribution of the two species of Smicraulax Pierce are reviewed, with some new data being incorporated into each of these areas. Diagnostic characters of the species are discussed and illustrated. The pupa of S. tuberculatus Pierce is described and illustrated for the first time. Both species of Smicraulax are known to be associated with Phoradendron.
10.2307/3669883|Between 3500 and 4270m elevation (11,500-14,000 ft.) 174 pitfall jars were placed in a variety of habitats. In 1967, 71 species and 16,342 sepcimens of spiders, phalangids, mites, and ground beetles were collected. Species within the same genus usually occur in different habitats, as defined by vegetation cover and soil moisture. All tundra species, for which adequate records exist, also occur at elevations below tree-line. "Accidental" species of spiders may occur on the tundra, after having been blown up from lower elevations. Three species of arachnids differ in mean adult size between tundra areas 77km apart; one of these species also differs in size between 3650m and 4270m elevation. Many Colorado alpine tundra arachnid and carabid species also occur on other Nearctic mountains and in the northern taiga. The same spider genera and families dominate arctic and alpine tundra areas on several different continents.
10.2307/3669884|Certain lakes, ponds, and streams in the arid Central Plateau of Chihuahua and Durango, Mexico were investigated for sponges and ectoprocts. Zoogeographical, ecological, and morphological discussions for species of both phyla are presented. Among the organisms found were the rare Carterius latitentus and Fredericella australiensis. Knowledge of the architectural variation of C. latitentus has been incomplete. Attention is directed to the arrangement of the gemmules and to their unique and variable foraminal appendages. There may be a single unilateral appendage or as many as four ribbon-like appendages with some, or all, possessing digitiform subdivisions. Specimens of Asteromeyenia plumosa from Chihuahua are compared with other collections of this species. The compact intertwining of F. australiensis colonies in Mexico, and the general absence of long erect zooecia, are unusual for this species. The species status and zoogeographical peculiarities of F. australiensis are discussed. Plumatella repens and Fredericella sultana were found in Durango.
10.2307/3669885|The lateral-line system of Ericymba buccata is unique among North American cyprimids. The infraorbital (IO) and preoperculomandibular (POM) canals are greatly expanded, subdivided into chambers, and partially encased by bone. The neuromasts in the IO and POM canals are also greatly enlarged, being approximately 9 or more times larger than neuromasts in the other cephalic canals. Skin neuromasts are present, although mainly positioned in the epithelium overlying the IO and POM canals. Histologically, canal and skin neuromasts are similar, although the cellular components of the latter are generally longer. The sustentacular cells of IO and POM canal neuromasts have discrete bases, but, beneath the sense cell bases, the sustentacular cells appear to anastomose with each other. Between sense cells, the distal ends of the sustentacular cells extend to the apical surface of the neuromast. Canal lumina are virtually mucus-free, for goblet cells are only occasionally observed in the stratified squamous epithelial lining. Near the canal neuromasts, the lumen is partially occluded by large, vertically striated cupulae.
10.2307/3669886|Censusing of bird populations in three forest habitats was conducted from March 1966 through February 1968 in Nacogdoches County, Texas. The three habitats consisted of: (1) a pine stand in which all hardwoods had been killed or removed, (2) a pine-hardwood stand which included 25 per cent hardwoods, and (3) a control unit that included 36 per cent hardwoods, which had not been cut for several years. Hardwood removal and the following prescribed burn opened up the canopy, which resulted in dense growth of the understory. Major finds and conclusions of this study are: (1) The total number of birds in the three areas did not differ statistically during the first year prior to the prescribed burn. (2) Prior to burning, the area of complete hardwood removal supported the most kinds of birds. (3) Prior to burning, the red-eyed vireo (Vireo olivaceus) was the only species showing a significant difference in nesting density. (4) Following burning, the number of birds in the partial hardwood removal area increased whereas the number in the control area decreased. (5) The species showing significant increases after burning were Carolina chickadee (Parus carolinensis) yellow-shafted flicker (Colaptes auratus), slate-colored junco (Junco hyemalis), and robin (Turdus migratorius). (6) Species diversity varied from 2.74 to 2.89, with differences not statistically significant. (7) Number of species varied from 19 to 24, and number of adult breeding birds per 100 acres varied from 1042 to 1350.
10.2307/3669887|The germination of Eurotia lanata (Pursh) Moq., (winterfat), seeds collected from three sites in Curlew Valley, Utah was tested for response to four levels of four salts. Germination percentages differed significantly between salt levels, each source decreasing in percentage germination as the salt level increased. Germination percentages differed significantly between seed source for three of the salts used. The seed source by salinity interaction was not significant. Genetic differences within the species may enable some strains to germinate more readily than others at higher salinity levels. Chloride salts, particularly NaCl, caused greater depression of germination than sulfate salts.
10.2307/3669888|A study was made of taxonomic relationships of the grasses Bouteloua hirsuta and B. pectinata as they occur together in north-central and central Texas. Population analyses showed marked differences between the species in several morphological characters, most significant of which are length of the longest basal leaf, inflorescence length, number of inflorescence branches, and anther length. The two species basically are diploid (2n=20) but a large proportion of the Texas plants referable to B. pectinata are aneuploid. Swarms of presumably hybrid plants of highly variable morphological aspect and aneuploid chromosome number usually occur where the two species grow together.
10.2307/3670221|Playa lakes, usually shallow, rain-fill depressions, occurring in the high plains of Texas have a characteristic vascular plant flora. Sixty-five species in twenty-six families are discussed in reference to distribution in the region, habitat preference and period of anthesis.
10.2307/3670222|Playa lakes of the High Plains region receive runoff from welldefined watershed areas. Data are presented from a study of two playa lakes and microcosms developed from the lakes. Nutrient agar plate counts of viable bacterial populations ranged from 10<sup>4</sup> to 10<sup>6</sup>/ml in the lakes and to 10<sup>7</sup>/ml in the microcosms. Of 22 bacterial types isolated, 10 were actinomycetes-like and 9 of the 22 were chromogenic, gram-negative rods. No bacterial succession was observed in the lakes although a definite succession was present in the microcosms. Bacteria were apparently little affected by changes in water temperature, pH changes (from pH 7.0 to 8.2), or in water levels of the lakes. Uptake of <sup>14</sup>C-U-glucose had value as a relative measure of heterotrophic activity and was closely related to viable plate counts of bacteria. Phytoplankton photosynthesis was negligible as based on uptake of <tex-math>$\text{NaH}^{14}\text{CO}_{3}$</tex-math>. Evidence was obtained for antibiotic production by an actinomycete isolate. Vascular plants covered approximately 75% of the playa dry lake bed. Following the influx of runoff, most of these plants were degraded, in part by microbial action. Thus, a food web was initiated which supported high numbers of animals, including water fowl. The playa lake ecosystems are highly productive and may represent an example of detritus agriculture.
10.2307/3670223|Humboldtiana agavophila Pratt, sp. nov., has been found in Pine-Oak Woodland under dead plants of Agave scabra at Laguna Meadow, Chisos Mountains, Big Bend National Park, Texas. The shell can be distinguished from sympatric species by the pattern of three dark brown color bands, the middle one normally widest and never absent, on a yellowish brown or white ground, and by the undepressed spire. When it is disturbed, the snail exudes a copious orange mucous. a defense, perhaps, against predators.
10.2307/3670224|The chigger Microtrombicula merrihewi (Loomis and Lipovsky) was recovered from the nasal passages of the free-tailed bats, Tadarida brasiliensis. Examination of 638 free-tailed bats from North America revealed that this intranasal chigger is a widespread and common parasite of T. b. mexicana and T. b. intermedia. Microtrombicula merrihewi is known from Arizona, California, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas, and Utah, in the United States; Baja California Sur, Chiapas, Michoacan, Sinaloa, and Sonora, in Mexico; and from Guatemala. A complete description is presented for the larval stage of M. merrihewi, and a critical study was made of 16 selected measurements of 139 larvae from 20 different localities and at various seasons. Statistical analyses of ten scutal and six leg measurements of larvae from 15 samples revealed that the larvae can be arranged in two size groups. The two sizes of larvae appear to have different geographic distributions. The two sizes seem to be largely allopatric although occasionally smaller larvae are present at localities where larger specimens are common. However, there is insufficient difference between the sizes to warrant separate taxa. It is suggested that occasionally the smaller chiggers are acquired at southern roosting sites and transported by migrating bats, which may possibly be "lost", to western sites. Twenty-nine per cent of T. b. mexicana examined were parasitized by M. merrihewi with a mean of 3.3 larvae per host. Microtrombicula merrihewi was three times more abundant in bats from caves and mines than from buildings and a bridge, strongly suggesting troglophilic tendencies of the free living, postlarval stages. A new, highly efficient technique was developed to remove intranasal chiggers without damage to the skull of mammals.
10.2307/3670225|The longfin dace spawns over a prolonged period, December through July, in low-desert streams, utilizing saucer-shaped depressions in sandy-bottomed, shallow pools. No territoriality is evident. Females enter a nest area to be serviced by one or more males in a "chase and flurry" type of spawning behavior. The species is highly opportunistic, dispersing rapidly to newly flooded stream segments in periods of high runoff. It is capable of persisting for an amazing period of time in desiccating streams through various behavioral means.
10.2307/3670226|Effects of temperature on heart and ventilatory rates of Sceloporus jarrovi were studied. Heart rates over the 30 C range (10-40 C) were exponential, with temperature coefficients ranging from 1.8 to 2.9. Ventilatory rates did not show the same exponential response, indicating that ventilatory rates may be independent of temperature. Ventilatory periods were interspersed with periods of apnea lasting up to 58 minutes at lower temperatures. Unlike more thermophilic lizards, S. jarrovi did not pant or hyperventilate at higher temperatures.
10.2307/3670227|Probable interspecific hybridization is described between the red fox, Vulpes fulva, and the desert kit fox, Vulpes macrotis. The range of overlap of V. fulva and V. macrotis includes Reagan, Crockett, and Glasscock Counties, Texas. Descriptions of probable first generation hybrids are given based on body size, pelage coloration, and cranial characteristics. Data indicate that probable hybridization is limited in extent with no evidence of introgressive hybridization in the zone of overlap in western Texas. Two possible isolating mechanisms are considered: time of denning and ecological preference. Available evidence indicates an overlap in times of denning for V. macrotis and V. fulva. There appears to be no preference for choice of den sites. The taxon V. macrotis may be reaching eastern limits of ecological tolerance in Reagan and Glasscock Counties.
10.2307/3670228|Antler phenology of a migratory Rocky Mountain mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus hemionus) population in northcentral Colorado was related to duration of daylight and the reproductive cycle (1959-65) by laboratory examination of 85 males, 50 pregnant females, and 1,750 field observations of antlered males. Antler growth occurred from March 6 to October 22; velvet drying or shedding, August 17-October 27; fully developed antlers, September 18-March 11; and antler shedding, December 17-April 10. Average testicular volume was minimal during April and May with increasing daylight and increased to a peak during October and November under decreasing daylight. Testicular volume regressed from December through March with increasing daylight. Antlers were shed during and following the inferred breeding season (November 15-February 7). Neck circumference averaged about the same from March through September, increased to a peak in October and November, and regressed from December through February. Significant regressions of age vs. testicular volume (October-November) and age vs. neck circumference (yearlong) suggest that the age distribution of the sample may have modified these cyclic variations.
10.2307/3670095|Six distinct plant associations were identified by extensive observations of preferred habitats utilized by breeding birds of the Chisos Mountains, Texas. Thirty species were found to nest within the Arroyo-Mesquite-Acacia Association. thirteen species in the Lechuguilla-Creosotebush-Cactus Association, thirtytwo species in the Sotol-Grass Association, forty-two species in the Deciduous Woodland Association, thirty-two species were found to use the Pinyon-Juniper-Oak Association, and twenty-four species were found breeding within the Cypress-Pine-Oak Association. Eighty-one species of birds were found to nest within the Chisos Mountains.
10.2307/3670096|Captive boat-billed herons (Cochlearius cochlearius) were observed from June 15 to August 23, 1967. Their biology, development, maintenance and comfort activities, and agonistic and sexual behavior are described.
10.2307/3670097|An automatic camera device, live-traps, and direct observations under red light were utilized in gathering information on activity periods and movements in a woodrat population. Woodrats were found most active from dusk to midnight with most activity occurring between the hours of 8:30 to 10:30 pm. No significant difference in activity was noted between sexes. Activity was highest on nights of new and quarter moon phases and lowest on nights of full moon. Adults generally dominated juveniles and subadults. Woodrats usually restricted their foraging activities within a diameter of 171 ft. Movements were generally confined to areas with overhead vegetation or rock outcroppings.
10.2307/3670098|Sensitivity of the Red River pupfish to acclimation-salinities and the capacity of this species to detect and avoid test-solutions were tested. Data revealed more fish within the acclimation-solutions than would be expected from random distribution and chance occurrence. C. rubrofluviatilis acclimated to a saline concentration exhibited a definite preference for the solution when presented a choice between it and one of differing salinity. As the concentration difference between the acclimation- and test-solutions increased, there was a corresponding rise in the preference-value for the acclimation-solution. This selection appeared to involve quantitative rather than qualitative sensitivity. This behavioral adaptation is of survival value.
10.2307/3670099|Percina macrolepida, a sibling species of Percina caprodes, is newly described from Texas and is found in all major river systems. P. macrolepida differs from P. caprodes in color pattern, with more and thinner lateral pigment bars, and in the reduction of the vertical subocular bar. P. macrolepida has larger scales than Texas P. caprodes and consequently has a smaller number of lateral line scales and diagonal scale rows. P. macrolepida is also distinguished by the presence of scales on the breast, prepectoral areas and the supraoccipital region. The distribution of P. macrolepida in Texas is such that it is more abundant than P. caprodes east of the Edwards Plateau but both occur in streams near the Balcones Escarpment. P. macrolepida seems to prefer large river environments of deep, moving but non-turbulent water.
10.2307/3670100|Fourteen species of snails found living in the Franklin Mountains, El Paso County, Texas, are listed, together with notes on their distribution and ecology. A fossil fauna of Pleistocene (probably Wisconsinan) age is reported. It contains twenty species, ten of which no longer seem to occur in the range. Paleoecologically, the fossil fauna suggests a more mesic climate and presence of forested slopes in the range as low as 4,900 ft elevation.
10.2307/3670101|An outcrop of the Eocene Rockdale formation (Wilcox group) at the Elgin Standard Brick Mfg. Co., in Bastrop County, Texas, contains many angiosperm leaf and fruit impressions. Twenty-seven species were identified from the site, and an analysis of their relative abundance shows the families Celastraceae, Lauraceae, Magnoliaceae, and Moraceae to be dominant. Generic determinations and leaf margin analyses suggest a paratropical depositional environment for the florule.
10.2307/3670102|Estimates of the saturation deficit of the mesophyll cells of tamarisk plants indicate that salt accumulation at the evaporation surface of the stomatal cavity is small with increased salinity in the root substrate. Salt glands which provide a mechanism for salt excretion prevent solute concentration at the evaporating surface which would reduce transpiration rates of this species. Transpiration rates were reduced by high saline content only at high vapor pressure deficits where other resistances within the plant may be affected by increasing transpiration rates beyond the transport capacity of the plant.
10.2307/3670494|Species of Grindelia (Compositae) from Texas, and several interspecific hybrids, have been studied to determine chromosome behavior at meiosis. The species were: G. lanceolata Nutt. (Denton County); G. microcephala DC. (Denton County and San Patricio County); G. texana Scheele (Johnson County and Lampasas County), G. littoralis Steyermark (Galveston County); G. oolepis Blake (San Patricio County); and G. grandiflora Hook. (Sutton County). All species are diploids (2n = 12) and all form six bivalents with no abnormalities at metaphase I. Pollen stainability was above 94% except in G. oolepis where it was 50%. Interspecific hybrids G. littoralis  G. texana, G. littoralis  G. microcephala, and G. lanceolata  G. littoralis had six bivalents and above 65% pollen stainability. In the hybrids of G. littoralis  G. havardii Steyermark (New Mexico) and G. lanceolata  G. havardii six bivalents were formed at metaphase I, and pollen stainability was 99% in the former. Hybrids of G. littoralis  G. squarrosa (Pursh) Dunal (New Mexico) had four bivalents and one quadrivalent and 34% pollen stainability. Hybrids between G. oolepis and G. scabra Greene (New Mexico) also had six bivalents. Reciprocal hybrids of G. havardii  G. squarrosa had four bivalents and one quadrivalent and averaged 48% pollen stainability. From these data these species, except G. squarrosa, have similar genomes and are therefore closely related. Since their genomes are homologous to the genome in G. havardii, previously designated the Havardii genome, it is concluded that the species possess this genome. Phylogenetic implications are discussed.
10.2307/3670495|Twenty-eight species are added to the first list published in 1965 and two corrections are made. UTMC-284 which had been previously reported as Stemonitis axifera is now classified as S. flavogenita and what was previously believed to be Macbrideola (Comatricha) cornea is now placed in M. decapillata. This brings the total number of species from Texas in the University of Texas Myxomycete Collection to 102. The digitate form of Arcyria cinerea is also reported from Texas for the first time. Physarum rigidum, P. roseum, and Crateruim paraguayense, three predominantly tropical forms, are among the more interesting species included.
10.2307/3670496|This paper reviews the physical damage eagles inflict when attacking their prey and, with these and other descriptions of wounds as guides, reports a field appraisal of livestock succumbing to predation on western rangelands. Massive subcutaneous hemorrhages and talon punctures on the dorsal surface of lambs characterize a victim of an eagle attack. Head and facial wounds are seldom present on eagle kills. More livestock carcasses were located per manhour of search in the Edwards Plateau Region (represented by the Eldorado, Texas, area) than elsewhere. However, using criteria we developed from the literature and from our own observations, we believe that no more than 10 percent of these carcasses were actually victims of predation (all types). Still births and other circumstances seemed to account for many of the other losses. Our studies in the Edwards Plateau Region did not fully coincide with the beginning of the region's lambing season. About 38 percent (3) of the dead lambs and kids found in the Val Verde Region of Texas were attributed to predatory losses. Only two dead lambs were discovered in the Guadalupe Mountain Region in 148 manhours of search; of these, one appeared the victim of predation, the other was a birth fatality. Overall, 25 percent of the deaths we could analyze among lambs and kids were attributable to predators. Ranchers we interviewed indicated that little or no eagle damage occurred during the course of our field work, a contention we fully support.
10.2307/3670497|A sample of 164 Terrapene coahuila from marshes in the Cuatro Cinegas basin, Coahuila, Mxico, was analyzed for size and sexual dimorphism. Bivariate relations between seven carapace and plastron measures indicated strongest sexual dimorphism in the carapce height/length relationship (males 43%, females 46% in relative height). Males averaged 108.9 mm and females 100.9 mm in carapace length. Marsh-inhabiting T. coahuila are smaller than those from river or pool habitats. Dietary differences and/or greater competition in the more densely populated marshes may explain the inter-population differences in size. About 70% of adult turtles possess a vermiculated pattern of small, yellow markings on the carapace. Eleven (5%) of 218 T. coahuila had extra epidermal scutes or had less than the normal number. The hypothesis that T. coahuila evolved as a Pleistocene relict produced by environmental isolation (championed by Milstead) is examined in the light of recent ecological observations coupled with a model of rapid evolutionary change proposed originally by Mosimann. These interpretations do not support the view that T. coahuila is a surviving remnant of an ancestral population of Terrapene but do support the idea of a relatively recent (mid-Pleistocene?) derivation for the species.
10.2307/3670498|Natural hybridization is reported for the Houston toad, Bufo houstonensis, with two other species, B. woodhousei and B. valliceps, in a disjunct pine forest near Bastrop, Bastrop Co., Texas. It is very difficult to morphologically distinguish B. woodhousei  B. houstonensis hybrids from the parental species. These hybrids, however, have a mating call intermediate between those of the parental species in pulse rate, dominant frequency, and and duration. B. valliceps  B. houstonensis hybrids are morphologically intermediate between the parental species and have an abnormal mating call. At Bastrop all premating isolating mechanisms except mating call and body size appear to have partially broken down. Habitat destruction by man may have contributed to this breakdown. Nine relictual populations of B. houtsonensis have been found in south-central Texas. At most localities the species is probably near extinction. The species seems restricted to sandy areas frequently characterized by the presence of Loblolly Pine. The destruction of these habitats is probably an important cause of the reduction in numbers of B. houstonensis, although other factors may be involved.
10.2307/3670499|Adult Misumenops coloradensis crab spiders were swept from one species of grass, 11 forbs, and one shrub in central New Mexico. None were collected from trees. Misumenops juveniles were swept from eight grasses, including sedges and rushes, 32 forbs, six shrubs, and three trees. Immature spiders apparently are less plant specific than mature spiders. Adults were taken in August and September from 4900 to 7400 ft elevation, while juveniles were collected from July to October from 4700 to 7600 ft elevation. Collections of M. coloradensis from Bernalillo, Santa Fe, and Torrance counties are new county records.
10.2307/3670059|For the past three years, a herpetofaunal study of an ecological transect through the eastern front range of the Sierra Madre Oriental has been conducted in the Mexican states of San Luis Potos and Quertaro. The transect passes through tropical deciduous, semi-cloud, pine-oak, dry oak and desert scrub forests within the first 65 kilometers, transversing elevations from 90 to 2,550 m. Brief descriptions of the various major vegetational areas are included. Sixty-five new herpetofaunal records are listed for the state of Queretaro. A discussion of systematic problems includes the species Pseudoeurycea cephalica, Sceloporus jarrovi, Eumeces lynxe, E. tetragrammus, Lepidophyma flavimaculatum, L. gaigeae, and L. smithi.
10.2307/3670060|The degree of social facilitation involved in the aerial-breathing behavior of young gars was studied. Data indicated that, within a group of two con-specifically grouped gar, 74.4% of the time a rise in one would induce a rise in the other. Conversely, within a group of four longnose gar, only 15.6% of the time did an initial rise not induce rises in one or more companions. The mean time for an imitative rise by a gar, following the previous rise, whether imitative or non-imitative, was sufficiently close to the mean time for a non-imitative rise to indicate the importance of a physiological respiratory threshold being reached before a rise in one gar would induce an imitative one in another. Within a group of three hetero-specifically grouped gar, only 6.9% of the time did an initial rise induce rises in its heterospecific companions. In all experiments, the percentage of induced rises decreased as the number of gar rising at one time increased. Success was obtained in inducing rises with a gar model manipulated so as to simulate the normal rise of these fish.
10.2307/3670062|Data were accumulated for 11 years with regard to relative abundance of bats sampled by mist nets placed over water in open areas at three localities in western New Mexico. Numbers of species and individual bats encountered varied at each locality studied and for each year of sampling. These variations in numbers of bats were correlated with the ecological ranges of the animals and recent disturbances by man.
10.2307/3670063|Observations on selection of food items by a tame aoudad (Ammotragus lervia) while feeding in three habitat conditions were recorded. Forbs as a category ranked first in order of preference, grass second, and browse third although individual plant species would deviate from this generalization. Food consumption in the exclosure reflected forage preferences as influenced by habitat potential since this pasture represented an above average habitat condition. Forage consumption in the other two pastures reflected preference as influenced by availability controlled by animal use.
10.2307/3670064|For five years an intensive study was made of the helminth parasites in fresh water fishes of Madison and Walker counties, eastern Texas. Four hundred and fifty-four fish representing 32 species and 10 families were critically examined for their parasites. Species recovered included 38 monogenetic and 12 digenetic trematodes, two cestodes, six nematodes and two acanthocephala. Two fish-infecting cercarial types and two metacercariae were also studied. The parasites and their fish hosts are summarized herein with new host records indicated.
10.2307/3670065|A variety of studies on the biology and life history of Eulimnadia antlei are presented. The nature of the egg hatching mechanism is discussed. Darkness inhibits hatching. Sexual and asexual reproduction varies with respect to clutch size, total eggs produced/female, and per cent hatch of the ova. Factors which limit hatching may require separation from those which limit larval survivorship in ecological studies of temporary pond branchiopods.
10.2307/3670066|Collections of mollusks, primarily gastropods, produced 13 families, 22 genera and 31 species from the Arbuckle Mountains, 11 families, 19 genera and 30 species from the Wichita Mountains, and 5 families, 8 genera and 13 species from Black Mesa. This distribution reflects an east to west moisture gradient. The faunas of the Arbuckles and the Wichitas are eastern U.S. in affinity, whereas that of Black Mesa contains some Rocky Mountain elements. Stenotrema wichitorum, described as new, is most closely related to S. leai. A diagnostic key is presented to the species of the S. leai complex, of which the new species is a member. The synonymy of Physa virgata Gould is discussed, and Pupoides inornatus and Vallonia cyclophorella are reported from Oklahoma for the first time.
10.2307/3670068|Members of the genus Eleodes at Joshua Tree National Monument live under daily and seasonal environmental extremes. Overt activity is consonant with these conditions. The data from five different laboratory and fiield procedures indicate that surface activities generally occur when the ambient temperatures are between 12-28C. As ambient temperature increases, Eleodes spp. select relatively cooler microhabitats; as ambient temperature decreases, Eleodes spp. select relatively warmer microhabitats. In the spring the insects are mostly diurnal; in the summer they are usually crepuscular or nocturnal; most beetles hibernate during the winter. Much of the activity period is spent foraging on small green herbs; however, individuals will eat almost any plant and sometimes animal material that they encounter. Inactive periods are spent in sheltered microhabitats such as rodent holes and crevices between rocks.
10.2307/3670069|There are 123 species and 15 varieties in 10 genera recorded, together with their host plants, collectors and states where collected. Four new species are described: Puccinia archibaccharidis on Archibaccharis hieracioides in Mexico and Guerrero State, P. mcvaughii on Archibaccharis sescenicepts in Guerrero State, P. stomatifera on Perezia nudicaulis in Chiapas State, and P. duranii on Eupatorium greggii in Durango State.
10.2307/3670070|Variation in plant cover with aspect, slope position, and soil attributes was investigated on grasslands in the Walnut Gulch Experimental Watershed in southeastern Arizona. Two plant communities were defined, based upon coefficients of interspecific association among 11 species. The Bouteloua eriopoda (black grama) community was found primarily on SW to SE aspects, Hathaway soils and upper slopes with soil attributes of relatively low moisture retention, organic carbon and clay content, but high pH, sand and gravel content. The Hilaria belangeri (curly mesquite) community was found primarily on NW to NE aspects, Bernardino soils and lower slopes with soil attributes the converse of the other community. H. belangeri appears to be limited in its distribution on SW to SE aspects because the greater solar irradiation on these aspects, at other than the 2- to 3-month summer growing season, causes drought conditions which reach critical proportions sooner in the arid spring or fall.
10.2307/3670071|Pollination ecology and floral biology were studied in Passiflora incarnata, Cassia fasciculata, Campsis radicans, and four Solanum species, all growing as weeds in Marshall County, Oklahoma. Passiflora and Cassia are facultatively autogamous, the others obligately xenogamous. All are entomophilous and Campsis also ornithophilous. Solanum rostratum is reproductively isolated from S. dimidiatum (S. torreyi), carolinense, and elaeagnifolium. Crosses between the last three yielded normally developed fruit but questionably viable seeds. Intrinsic barriers among the four Solanums are discussed. A new chromosome count for S. dimidiatum, n=18, 2n=36, is reported.
10.2307/3670072|At the Nevada Test Site an abnormality was observed in branch tips and young leaves of a globemallow, Sphaeralcea grossulariaefolia (Hook. and Arn.) Rydb. In infested plant parts, terminal internodes are shortened, and the dwarfed leaves are crumpled, forming conspicuous bud galls. The windborne mite which causes the gall is identified as the crumple or bud mite, Acalitus sphaeralceae Keifer (Eriophyidae). Within the terminal plant growth, the female lays eggs and feeds on embryonic tissues, injecting saliva and aspirating the liquefied plant material. Subsequently the leaf grows into the crumpled condition, providing crevices which the immature and adult mites inhabit and producing enlarged nurse cells upon which both young and adults feed. Leaves become modified predominantly by folding over, enclosing these surface parasites which do not enter the mesophyll. In leaves involved in gall formation the mesophyll, normally closely packed palisade, develops as loosely arranged spongy tissue.
10.2307/3670073|Observations and plot analysis on lightning-caused plant destruction in the paloverde-saguaro (Cercidium-Cereus) communities were made in the Tucson Mountains near Tucson, Arizona. Lightning selectively removes the oldest individuals of the saguaro population. Annual destruction of saguaros by lightning is estimated at 0.51 to 3.18 plants per ha (0.6 to 4.0%); saguaro biomass converted, 520 kg to 2,840 kg per ha (1.1 to 5.8%). Physical evidence of lightning damage to saguaro cacti is distinctive and may be detected up to five weeks or more after the plant is killed. However, the evidence is masked by rapid natural decomposition of the plant. Delayed examination can easily lead to the invalid assumption that death of the stricken saguaro is attributable to "bacterial necrosis disease" or other inappropriate causes.
10.2307/3669833|Floristics, vegetation indices and soils were studied on 65 remnant stands within the shale-limestone region of western Kansas. An environmental gradient, consisting of five moisture classes, was established to study species distributions and community structure. Most species exhibited continuous distributional patterns in response to the moisture gradient. Mesic habitats were low in species numbers while drier sites exhibited a greater species diversity. The dominant grasses, Andropogon gerardi, Andropogon scoparius and Bouteloua gracilis were too ubiquitous in their distribution to be used in community delineation; therefore, four communities based on indicator species were established within the study area. These communities were: very-dry (Lesquerella-Tetraneuris), dry-mesic (Salvia-Sporobolus), mesic (Amorpha-Euphorbia) and wet-mesic (Poa-Rosa-Euphorbia).
10.2307/3669834|Surface phytoplankton were collected from three areas of Lake Texoma. The area with the highest salinity and highest conductivity had the greatest number of algal genera and greatest number of individuals present. Water temperature was about the same for each area. Thirty genera representing five phyla were identified. Chlorophyta genera were more prevalent than Cyanophyta in each collection. Bacillariophyta were present in each area. Pyrrhophyta and Euglenophyta preferred the area of highest salinity and turbidity. Genera present in each locality varied through time.
10.2307/3669835|The following Tardigrada are reported from Mexico: Pseudechiniscus cornutus lobatus, Echiniscus kerguelensis, Macrobiotus echinogenitus, M. furcatus, M. harmsworthi, M. hufelandii, Hypsibius baumanni, H. nodulosus, H. oberhaeuseri, H. sculptus, and Milnesium tardigradum. Except for Macrobiotus harmsworthi and M. hufelandii, all are new records for Mexico.
10.2307/3669836|Fifteen species of solpugida have been recorded for Colorado with seasonal and geographic distribution. Eremorhax mumai, new species, is described and Hemerotrecha denticulata Muma is recorded from the state for the first time. Problems involving the taxonomy of Eremobates pallipes (Say), Eremobates durangonus Roewer, and Eremobates suspectus Muma are discussed.
10.2307/3669837|Ants were collected for three summers at the plains-foothill border region southwest of Boulder, Colorado. The data indicate that ants may offer significant evidence for the plains-foothill border as an important biological boundary. Three quadrats were established: one in a wooded area; another in a meadow; and the third in an ecotone, half-meadow, half-wooded area. A total of 25 species and subspecies were discovered. Of these 25 texa, nine were found in two contiguous quadrats, providing evidence of a distinct boundary between the lower edge of the foothill zone and the plains, since eight of these nine were found in the ponderosa pine forest and the ecotone, but did not penetrate the meadow. The other species was found in the meadow and ecotone, but did not penetrate the ponderosa pine forest. Two additional species were in the meadow, and five occurring in the forest did not penetrate the ecotone; these also served as evidence of a faunal boundary between the foothills and the plains.
10.2307/3669838|Eggs of Cyprinodon rubrofluviatilis can be successfully incubated at temperatures between 14.0 and 36.4 C. The upper limit slightly exceeds that previously reported in the literature.
10.2307/3669839|A large collection of Pleistocene vertebrates has been assembled from the region surrounding the City of Aguascalientes, State of Aguascalientes, Mexico. A new tortoise, Gopherus auffenbergi, is described from this collection.
10.2307/3669840|Examination of 349 Louisiana specimens of Sceloporus undulatus substantiates the presence of two subspecies in the state. Sceloporus u. undulatus inhabits areas east, and S. u. hyacinthinus areas west and north of the Mississippi-Atchafalaya river basin. The absence of specimens from the Mississippi-Atchafalaya river basin may indicate a lack of intergradation in Louisiana.
10.2307/3669841|Observations were made on the ecology of American kestrels, Falco sparverius, in central Utah from 1967-1970. Information presented includes observations on their habitat requirements, populations, nesting activities, productivity, care and feeding of young and food habits.
10.2307/3669842|The results of a population ecology study on Peromyscus eremicus in south-central Arizona are reported. Seasonal changes in the density, sex and age ratios, and reproductive activity of two ecologically separated populations are described. The general trend of population density is a high winter population and a low summer population, indicative of aestivation. The sampled populations were largely adult indicating rather stable populations, neither dispersing nor following explosive increase in population numbers. Of the animals taken 66% were males. This apparent departure from a hypothetical 1:1 ratio is attributed to behavior and is not considered significant. Cactus mice appear to have a protracted breeding season. Both males and females in breeding condition and juveniles were taken in all seasons. Subadult animals are apparently sexually mature, as both lactating and pregnant females of this age class were taken.
10.2307/3670366|Geographic, individual and secondary sexual variations are analyzed in the white-ankled mouse, Peromyscus pectoralis. Ways of distinguishing this species from P. boylii are described. Geographic location of character shifts in nine characters is shown graphically. Three subspecies of P. pectoralis (pectoralis, laceianus, and collinus) are recognized, and the name eremicoides is placed in synonomy. Shifts showing a high degree of concordancy form the primary basis for subspecific boundaries. The most extreme intraspecific differentiation in the species occurs across a steep ecological gradient in Tamaulipas.
10.2307/3670367|The objective of the experiment, using closed-circuit television, was to determine quantitatively some characteristics of vampire bat behavior in captivity. Observations of the time and the manner in which 5 vampire bats performed 4 types of behavior were made. In five 6-hr observation periods the vampire bats averaged 4 hr 58 min resting or sleeping, 34 min grooming, 18 min feeding, and 7 min moving. There was a mean of 260 mouth-body contacts during grooming. /// El objetivo del experimento, llevado a cabo por medio de un circuito cerrado de televisin, fu determinar cuantitativamente las caractersticas del comportamiento del vampiro comn en cautiverio. Se observ el tiempo y la forma en que 5 vampiros realizan 4 tipos de comportamiento. En 5 observaciones de 6 horas encontramos los siguientes promedios: descansar, 4 hr 58 min; limpieza, 34 min; alimentacin, 18 min y en moverse 7 min. Durante la limpieza hubo un promedio de 260 contactos boca-cuerpo.
10.2307/3670368|Data on cavity and intermediate cavity nesting species of birds of northern Louisiana were collected over seven consecutive nesting seasons extending through July, 1969. More than 1200 active nests of 28 different species of birds were observed. The number of each species represented, clutch size, brood size and related reproductive information is given. Nesting began in February and continued into August. The peak of the nesting season was late April and early May.
10.2307/3670369|Two species groups of schizomids occur in California and Arizona. Their low vagility and inability to disperse through suboptimal areas make their present distribution largely a product of the geologic and climatic events since the Miocene. The relictual nature of most schizomid populations testifies to the vicissitudes of the northerly latitudes during the Pleistocene and Recent epochs for these Neotropical-Tertiary and Madro-Tertiary representatives.
10.2307/3670370|Jumping spiders are abundant diurnal hunters that must be of considerable economic importance through destruction of harmful insects. Little has been published concerning the distribution of species in Texas, and almost nothing concerning their habitats or ecology. Thirty distinct species have been identified in Wichita County, each with its own habits and habitat preferences.
10.2307/3670371|Three xeric communities in Arizona with one or more species of Yucca in common are compared by using the line-intercept and 1  1 m<sup>2</sup> quadrats to obtain importance values of the perennial species. There is close agreement between the two methods among the more abundant species. The lower the importance value the more likely the results will differ. Similar results are obtained for all three sites. It is concluded that the line-intercept is a satisfactory method in sparse xeric communities. It is also suggested that frequency may be the only data necessary for such comparative studies.
10.2307/3670372|Two new species of Gaillardia (G. gypsophila and G. powellii) endemic to gypseous soils of northcentral Mexico are described. G. gypsophila is diploid with n = 17 and is most closely related to the Mexican species G. comosa, which is teraploid with n = ca. 34. G. powellii appears to be most closely related to G. multiceps. The latter is a tetraploid or hexaploid (n = 34 and 51) while G. powellii is diploid with n = 17. The latter two species are clearly related to the diploid G. pinnatifida (n = 17). Additional data bearing upon these taxa and their relationships are presented including distributional maps and a table listing the new and previous chromosome counts for the genus as a whole.
10.2307/3670373|Huisache sprouts attained almost half their expected total plant height in five months after top removal in South Texas. Huisache sprouts from plants cut on three different dates in the same year showed the same general growth pattern with the inflection point on the growth curve occurring at about 60 days. Limited rainfall prior to top removal apparently affected the length of time required for sprouting after top removal. Biotic pressure significantly reduced the elongation rate of huisache sprouts to one-half that of undamaged sprouts during the initial four month growing period.
10.2307/3670169|Clonally derived Verbena canadensis (Verbenaceae) plants were subjected to four different environments having varied temperature, humidity, and light regimes. Their upper and lower epidermal features were studied to determine their constancy. Sinclair and Dunn's (1961) method of making epidermal imprints was employed. It was found that the subsidiary cell complex, and the smallest and the largest stomatal sizes were not affected by environmental variation. Trichome type and the absence of glandular trichomes on the upper surface were not affected. In addition, the ratio of leaf length to width and the number of pairs of leaves produced also remained constant. In contrast, stomatal frequency, epidermal cell frequency, stomatal index, trichome density, leaf color and size, internodal length, and stem color were modified by environmental changes.
10.2307/3670170|Growth of Opuntia imbricata [Haw.] DC. was studied by periodically measuring lengths of new branches during the growing season. During 1967, when rainfall was plentiful, large and medium plants grew at a faster rate than small plants. However, during 1968 when rainfall was below average, the growth rate differed little among plants of different size classes. Cholla began growth earlier in the season than herbaceous vegetation and completed growth while herbaceous plants were still actively growing. Cholla growth was only slightly correlated with soil moisture while herbaceous production was correlated with soil moisture content at three depths. Direct competition for moisture between cholla and herbaceous vegetation may be minimized by differences in growth periods and utilization of different sources of moisture for growth.
10.2307/3670171|This study describes the horizontal, vertical, and seasonal variation qualitatively and quantitatively of net plankton in Craighead Lake and the co-existing physicochemical characteristics. Further, this information is compared qualitatively with the results obtained by Barton (1963) concerning the same lake. Craighead Lake is a soft water lake with generally adequate oxygen values throughout the year, maintaining a fairly constant carbon dioxide level and neutral pH in the upper strata. The lake is biologically poor and the 55 genera of net plankton identified constituted a mean annual standing crop of only 710 organisms/1. Total organisms varied numerically from 168/1 to 2254/1 on 4 January and 26 April 1969, respectively. Difflugia, Ceratium, Diaptomus, and Keratella were the dominant genera, in that order. Vertical distribution of plankton was generally characterized by fewer taxa and greater numbers/1 with increased depth. The most striking change in net plankton since 1962-63 has been a drastic change in the composition of the dominant forms. This change, and the overall paucity of plankton organisms in the present study, is largely attributed to the softness of the water and the enlargement of the lake in 1962 by extensive dredging.
10.2307/3670172|Weekly physicochemical analyses, including water temperature, dissolved oxygen, carbon dioxide, pH, total alkalinity, turbidity, and light transmittance were made for a one-year period in a lake of 0.76 ha. Dissolved oxygen and temperature profiles and surface samples for chemical analysis were taken at each of seven stations. Midwater (1.5 m) and deep samples (2.7 m) for chemical analysis were taken at the three deepest stations. Thermal stratification persisted for about seven months of the year, and the lake was completely mixed for about two and one-half months in winter. Below 1.8 m depth dissolved oxygen was less than 1 mg/1 for about four months in the summer. Carbon dioxide was present in greater concentrations than has been reported for most other fresh-water ponds and lakes, and the total alkalinity and pH were lower than those commonly reported. Turbidity was high and the light transmittance was influenced accordingly. Turbidity and dissolved oxygen seemed to have had the most influence on the capability of the lake to support a diversified aquatic community.
10.2307/3670173|Species of Gambusia such as G. affinis and G. geiseri, which have males with acute gonopodial tips have females whose genital opening terminates in a papilla. Species such as G. heterochir or G. regani have males with blunt gonopodia and with small gonopodial hooks and their females have a genital opening terminating in an enclosed sinus. Such similarities in structure between species currently recognized from different species groups probably indicates a functional adaptation for more efficient sperm transfer during conspecific matings.
10.2307/3670174|For young-of-year spotted gar, Lepisosteus oculatus, the ambient oxygen concentration of the water influenced the rate of aerial respiration and behavior. Aerial respiration versus ambient partial pressure of dissolved oxygen indicated a distinct negative relationship. As ambient Po<sub>2</sub> decrease, aerial-breathing increased. The rate of increase in aerial-breathing between 0 and 79 mm Hg more than doubled (0.005 breaths/hr per mm Hg, compared to Po<sub>2</sub>'s greater than 19 mm Hg). The extent at which the gar is affected by dissolved oxygen tensions may be related to many factors, in particular the gill efficiency or the oxyhemoglobin affinity.
10.2307/3670175|Serum proteins and chromosomes were examined for specimens of Cynomys parvidens from five localities throughout its range. C. parvidens possesses a diploid number of 50 chromosomes and a karyotype similar to that of the white-tailed prairie dog, Cynomys leucurus, differing by three non-Robertsonian changes. Electrophoresis of serum transferrins reveals a single slow-moving band (Tf 5), which has the same electrophoretic mobility as that in C. leucurus. The serum albumin of C. parvidens is electrophoretically identical to the albumins of C. leucurus and C. gunnisoni. Combined evidence from karyology, serology, morphology, and zoogeography supports the concept that C. parvidens and C. leucurus are closely related species and once may have belonged to a single interbreeding population.
10.2307/3670176|Six capture sites are reported for the Mexican long-tongued bat (Leptonycteris nivalis) in Big Bend National Park, Brewster County, Texas, and one in adjacent Coahuila, Mexico. Data are given on a four-year decline and disappearance of L. nivalis at Mt. Emory cave, the only colony location known for the United States. Three capture sites were in the Lower Sonoran Life-zone (arroyo--mesquite-acacia, and lechuguilla-creosotebush-cactus plant associations). This is the first report indicating L. nivalis is not limited to the Transition and Canadian Life-Zones (pine-oak forests).
10.2307/3670116|Pitfall faunal sampling along north-south transects through the Arkansas River watershed in the vicinity of Canon City, Colorado, was conducted from 1963 to 1965. A total of 721 specimens of insectivores and rodents was obtained, representing 22 species. The altitudinal distribution of these species is detailed and possible factors underlying the ecological distinctiveness of the area are suggested.
10.2307/3670117|The karyotype of Thomomys townsendii similis was originally described as having 2n = 40 chromosomes (Wentworth and Sutton, 1969). Chromosome material from five new specimens of T. t. similis all show 2n = 76 chromosomes with karyotypes that appear the same as those described for other subspecies of this species. The morphologic similarity of T. t. similis to other subspecies of T. townsendii is discussed. Comparisons between the diploid number of chromosomes of "heavy rostrum" and "narrow rostrum" members of the species Thomomys are presented.
10.2307/3670118|The rodents of a lower desert creosote bush community near Las Vegas, Nevada were snap trapped over a 32 month period. Eight species, Dipodomys merriami, Perognathus longimembris, Ammospermophilus leucurus, Neotoma lepida, Onychomys torridus, Perognathus formosus, Peromyscus eremicus and Peromyscus crinitus, are considered characteristic of creosote bush communities. Two other species, Peromyscus truei and Thomomys umbrinus were represented by a single individual, whereas Peromyscus maniculatus moved into the study area and became temporarily abundant after large numbers of the dominant species, D. merriami, had been removed. Dipodomys merriami, A. leucurus, N. lepida and O. torridus showed year-round activity whereas P. longimembris, P. formosus and P. eremicus were seasonally inactive or dormant. A synchronization of reproductive season in the rodent fauna (peak in March and April) occurred when green vegetation was best developed in the low desert. Green vegetation appears to be necessary as succulent food during the reproductive season. Most species tended to be generalized and opportunistic in feeding habits, although they varied both between species and seasonally. Coexistence of the eight species making up the characteristic rodent fauna appears to involve niche segregation (differences in daily and seasonal activity, habitat, and food utilization).
10.2307/3670119|This paper reports a study of prenatal growth of cottontail rabbits on the Welder Wildlife Refuge in South Texas. Measurements of known-age cottontails showed that the young in utero were smaller than Missouri rabbits of the same ages. However, they were similar in size at birth. A prenatal curve was fitted by hand for crown-rump length; hind foot length and body weight data were also presented.
10.2307/3670120|Acorn preferences of fox squirrels were studied. Preferences were correlated to chemical and physical attributes of the acorns. Sample preference within species was correlated to low tannin content. Preferred types had less fat and redder shells. Acorns from the red and black oak group were favored over the white oaks. An acquired preference was shown for acorns from the native habitat of the squirrels.
10.2307/3670121|The bat fauna of Guadalupe Mountains National Park has been poorly known. In June 1968 and August 1970, a total of 375 bats were netted in and near McKittrick Canyon within the Park. Pipistrellus hesperus, Eptesicus fuscus, Tadarida brasiliensis, and Antrozous pallidus were the most abundant species. Lasiurus cinereus, Lasionycteris noctivagans and Tadarida macrotis were more common than anticipated. The August catch-rate was only slightly below that of June, but catch-rates of individual species varied substantially between the two months. Most species reached their activity peak within an hour after dusk. Seven individuals banded in the canyon were recovered there.
10.2307/3670122|Taste buds occur in the oral epithelium of Leptotyphlops dulcis. They lie in non-keratinized, stratified squamous epithelium on dermal folds, around the paired openings of Jacobson's organ. Their function and behavioral implications in L. dulcis are discussed.
10.2307/3670123|Growth rates of bluegills (Lepomis macrochirus) were determined for three areas of Lake Texoma: the Buncombe Creek area, the Island area, and the Denison Dam area. The total length of the Island bluegills for all age classes exceeded bluegills from both the Buncombe Creek and Denison Dam areas. The difference in total length of bluegills of the IV and V age classes from the Islands was significantly greater than for bluegills from the other two areas. Calculated growth rates of age groups IV and V also confirmed that bluegills in the Island area grew more during each year of life than bluegills in the other two areas.
10.2307/3670124|The fish fauna of Tornillo Creek is primarily composed of temporary inhabitants during breeding and rearing seasons. Introduced Fundulus kansae may compete with and may have reduced population densities of native Campostoma ornatum.
10.2307/3670125|The orangebelly darter, Etheostoma radiosum cyanorum, is found only in the Blue River system of south central Oklahoma. Adult fish exhibited very little movement within the stream. It was found that few of the adults showed intraraceway movement and none exhibited inter-raceway movement. Larval and young-of-year darters exhibited stream movement. Postlarval fish were found in the quiet water or pool areas of the stream. As the fish increased in size they moved into progressively swifter water. At approximately 25 mm total length they were found in the raceway areas of the stream, their adult habitat. Approximately 2.66 adult orangebelly darters were found for every square meter of raceway in the study area.
10.2307/3670127|A specimen of Selaginella fraiponti (Lesq) Schlanker and Leisman reveals a ligule, along with a smaller subtending outgrowth. These two structures appear to be attached close to the base of the megasporangia stalk, and in some sections appear to be continuous with the stalk itself.
10.2307/3670128|Ten wood-rotting hymenomycetes from Arizona and New Mexico are described and illustrated. Of these, Amphinema tomentella, Coniophora mustialaensis, Inonotus patouillardii, Leucogyophana pseudomollusca, Phlebia lilacea, and Trechispora subillaqueata have not previously been reported from North America. Fomitopsis ulmaria, reported from the western United States for the first time, is associated with a root and butt rot of living Fremont cottonwood. Inonous patouillardii is associated with a white trunk rot of living Mexican blue oak and Arizona white oak.
10.2307/3669905|Two species of pocket gophers are allopatric on the Edwards Plateau of central Texas but remains of both species have been found together in late Pleistocene and early Recent cave faunas. Geomys bursarius texensis occupies a small range in Mason and McCulloch, and perhaps Gillespie, Counties. Thomomys bottae confinalis is found in a small area in Kimble County and a broader, separated area in Edwards and Sutton counties. Thomomys b. confinalis no longer occurs at the type locality in Kerr County. No geographic variation was found in Thomomys populations from the eastern Edwards Plateau, and isolation of the populations may have been relatively recent. Populations of Thomomys seem to be expanding at this time. The present small range of Geomys b. texensis may be only a remnant of its late Pleistocene range.
10.2307/3669906|Reproduction in white-footed mice, Peromyscus leucopus, was studied during three breeding seasons at the northern limits of geographic distribution. The mice began to breed in March and continued breeding into September. Lactation continued into October. There was no marked decline in mean testis size in summer, and though pregnancy declined slightly in July of one year, lactation did not. Peak reproduction occurred in the fall. After light snowfall and severe frost in winter few females were trapped. Weight and reproductive records showed that numerous pregnancies in fall are from young of the year, and evidently the mortality of old mice is high in summer. Juveniles enter the population in numbers in June, and attain their highest frequency in September. Thus, the curves for reproduction in females, nearly unimodal in appearance, upon investigation are bimodal, derived from subsets of the breeding population. The mean litter size was 4.77  0.18 (3-7), significantly greater than in central Illinois, only 325 miles southward. Sixty per cent of adult mice were males. Successive early pregnancies are regarded as adaptive to these northern populations, and an hypothesis is proposed suggesting that day length is related to time spent nursing the young, and therefore to litter size.
10.2307/3669907|During a 47-month live-trap study conducted in a remnant grassland in west-central Kansas, Sigmodon hispidus preferred habitats with dense undergrowth and protective overstory and used less favored habitats primarily when population densities were high. Seasonal home ranges based on the exclusive boundary-strip method averaged significantly larger (P < 0.01) for males (0.96 acre) than for females (0.54 acre). Males were more nomadic than females, but both sexes traversed smaller areas during periods of high density than during low density. No indication of territorial defense was evident.
10.2307/3669908|In a laboratory substrate experiment large fingernail clams (Sphaerium striatinum) showed no clear preference for mud, sand or sandy mud. Small clams of the same species exhibited a two-fold selection for mud over sand and sandy mud (significant at 0.05 level). S. striatinum usually occurs in sandy substrates in Pennington Creek, Johnston County, Oklahoma and substrate selection does not appear to be a major factor in determining its distribution.
10.2307/3669910|A taxonomic treatment for the eleven species of Galium which occur in Oklahoma is presented. Also, the first published report of each taxon for the state is given along with an historical record of early collections. Maps showing the distribution of the species in Oklahoma are included.
10.2307/3669911|Seven species of Uromyces are added to those previously recorded. Included are three described as new: Uromyces rzedowskii, U. tepicensis and U. collinus.
10.2307/3669912|Eighty chromosome counts are reported for six closely related species in the grass genus Aristida. The basic haploid number is eleven. Diploids (n = 11), and tetraploids (n = 22) are found in all six taxa. Hexaploids (n = 33) occur in two species, and octoploids (n = 44) in only one. The occurrence and geographic distribution of cryptic polyploidy among members of the complex is discussed.
10.2307/3669913|Carbon dioxide exchange characteristics were determined for eight native grass species. Considerable differences exist in the photosynthesis and respiration rates of these dominant prairie grasses, and these differences cannot be categorized into tall-, mid-, or short-grass prairie types. High photosynthetic rates were found in both tall- and short-grasses, while the lowest was found in a tall-grass. Both the gas exchange rates and the growth rates change rapidly with age in young seedlings so it is impossible to project the behavior of seedlings from data obtained from mature plants and vice-versa.
10.2307/3670413|Chromosome numbers are reported for 63 taxa of Compositae from the southwestern United States. Seventeen taxa are recorded for the first time, including a first report for the genus Enceliopsis (n=18).
10.2307/3670414|Seeds were obtained from plants within three Mexican and two Texas populations of lechuguilla. Preliminary studies indicated no dormancy mechanisms were involved and that germination was light insensitive. Various populations were then tested to determine germination response to constant temperature, pH, and osmotic potential. Lechuguilla germinated readily over a wide range of each condition tested. High temperature pre-treatment at 60C for 7 days did not significantly affect viability. The optimum constant temperature for germination is between 25C and 30C, with limits occurring near 10C and 40C. Seeds germinated well under water stresses up to -5.0 atm, and, of the pH's tested, germinated best at the moderately acid 6.15. A sharp decline in percent germination occurred at the moderately basic pH values of 7.30 and 7.85. Seed weights differed significantly between Texas and Mexico populations sampled, but no correlation appeared between seed weight and viability. No marked ecotypic variability of germination response was noted. Intra-population variability of germination response was high under extreme conditions.
10.2307/3670415|A mechanistic simulation model is presented for the dynamics of phosphorus and potassium in a tall-grass prairie ecosystem in northeastern Oklahoma. Values for certain abiotic factors in 1970 were used as input to the model. Output consisted of predicted time-series of values for the amounts of phosphorus and potassium present in the different compartments of the ecosystem. Predicted values agreed quite well in some but not all cases with observed values.
10.2307/3670416|The distribution of aquatic oligochaetes in Texas and Oklahoma is discussed. Nais magnaseta is described from Texas and Pristina unidentata is described from Oklahoma. Morphometric characteristics of specimens from these states are compared with those from other regions.
10.2307/3670417|The collecting of opisthobranchs during July, 1969, from the La Paz area, Baja California del Sur, Mexico, produced 21 species. Detailed observations on the distribution, behavior, habitats, ecological associations, and taxonomy are given for three of these species. Egg-laying activity is reported for Tridachiella diomedea and Pleurobranchus areolatus; the occurrence of Phyllobranchillus viridis, an Atlantic species, is established in the eastern Pacific; Pleurobranchus digueti is reduced to a synonym of the older species, Pleurobranchus areolatus.
10.2307/3670418|Discovery of Cambarellus texanus, from the Gulf coastal plain of southeastern Texas, helps clarify relationships within the genus. New distributional records for the three species previously known from Texas include 15 new county records.
10.2307/3670419|Plants and vertebrates at seven localities (six Upper River Camps and one Lower River Camp) were studied in the Durangan sector of the Caon del Ro Mezquital in November-December, 1970. Although there are tropical elements in the streamside biota as the river enters the Caon near Mezquital, the dominant aridshrub assemblage present gradually gives way downstream to a short-tree, tropical deciduous assemblage. New records of vertebrates are reported for Durango from this spectacular Caon. The successful completion of this expedition marked the first recorded traverse of this caon system.
10.2307/3670420|In 1963, while excavating for a new bank building in downtown Dallas, workmen found several pieces of limestone from the Austin Chalk (Coniacian) enclosing numerous fossil bones. Three of these slabs contained the partially crushed skull and other associated remains of an enchodontid fish. Preparation of these pieces exposed an exceptionally well preserved and complete specimen. It was measured, photographed, and carefully illustrated. A reconstruction of the head is depicted and the specimen is compared with two other species of Enchodus. This large Texas specimen is assigned as Enchodus petrosus Cope... the first report of the species in Texas, as well as possibly the finest skull of the species reported. Enchodontid fishes seem to have been open sea predators since isolated teeth and bones are relatively common in Cretaceous rocks which are of marine origin. Complete specimens are rare due to incomplete fusion of individual vertebral elements and the almost complete lack of scales.
10.2307/3670421|Length-weight data on juvenile spot, Leiostomus xanthurus Lacpde, and Atlantic croaker, Micropogon undulatus (Linnaeus), taken in Galveston Bay, Texas during 1963, were used to examine variations in condition of fish between nursery areas within the bay and with size of fish, time, temperature and salinity. Changes in the condition of spot were associated with habitat, size, season, and temperature and in the condition of Atlantic croaker with size, season, and salinity. Because these fish were immature, gonad development was discounted as a causative factor, and it was concluded that changes in condition represented changes in body form associated with growth and fatness that are in turn associated with suitability of the environment.
10.2307/3670422|Ovarian development in Cyprinodon rubrofluviatilis was relatively unaffected by the daylength treatments (7 hr photoperiod vs 15 hr period) compared with the effects of the test temperatures (15C vs 30C). Large eggs near maturity were produced by all experimental groups, but individuals of the 15C groups had greater mean egg diameters and gonosomatic indexes than those of the 30C groups. The latter groups had much greater coefficients of condition <tex-math>$(\text{K}_{\text{TL}})$</tex-math> than the former, apparently as a result of higher energy intake and high metabolic efficiency. The explanation of the differential ovarian development may lie partially in a competitive relationship between ovarian and somatic mass, with high proportions of assimilated energy shunted to somatic tissues at high temperatures. The pupfish seems to have low temperature thresholds for reproductive functions (ovogenesis and spawning), and this conforms well with the apparent ecological role of this species.
10.2307/3669741|A new species of Pliocene horse Equus (Dolichohippus) mesa-mexicanus, is described from the Ocote local fauna of the State of Guanajuato, Mexico. From the same fauna are identified Astrohippus stockii Lance, originally described from deposits in Chihuahua, Mexico, and Astrohippus ansae (Matthew and Stirton), originally described from the Panhandle of Texas. Protohippus muelleri Mooser is removed to the genus Dinohippus and a description based on new material is given.
10.2307/3669742|The taxonomic status of Peromyscus comanche Blair 1943 is herein taxonomically reviewed. The karyotype of P. comanche is given and compared with Peromyscus truei truei and Peromyscus difficilis nasutus. Morphological comparisons are made between a sample of P. comanche and one of P. truei from New Mexico. Chromosomal and morphological evidence indicate the affinities of P. comanche are with P. truei and not with P. difficilis, as previously suspected. The difficulties in classifying alloptaric populations are discussed. Peromyscus comanche is considered a subspecies of P. truei (Peromyscus truei comanche).
10.2307/3669743|Diet and feeding behavior of six species of Cnemidophorus occurring in Trans-Pecos Texas were studied over a three-year period. Comparative food data revealed that similar food items were utilized by all six species, but minor differences did occur that could be significant during adverse times. A dramatic shift in items consumed was documented for Cnemidophorus gularis as the activity season of 1968 progressed from the dry season into the wet season. Foraging behavior among sympatric species often represented a difference in methods of obtaining food which allowed species to exploit items, which although of the same general category, represented distinct differences in prey.
10.2307/3669744|Notropis perpallidus Hubbs and Black is a poorly known shiner usually placed in the subgenus Notropis. Previous descriptions, based on only three individuals, are supplemented from numerous recently collected specimens and additional data on vertebral numbers, cephalic lateral line system, alimentary tract, swim bladder, scale morphology, and nuptial tuberculation are presented. The first illustration of the species is given. The peppered shiner (proposed new common name) is known only from the Red and Ouachita river drainages, Oklahoma and Arkansas. It inhabits lentic and slow-flowing areas in small to moderate-sized rivers of the Ouachita Mountains and upper Coastal Plain provinces. This species is suggested for inclusion in listings of rare and endangered forms. Annuli form on scales during mid- to late summer. Few specimens, all males, reached the fourth year of life. The largest known male is 40.5 mm SL and the largest female 38.7 mm, thus making this species one of the smallest in Notropis. Most age 1 and all age 2 and 3 Ouachita drainage specimens collected in May through August were sexually mature and in spawning condition. Food during warmer seasons is largely insects, with Diptera larvae the predominant item. Benthic, mid-water and surface feeding probably occur.
10.2307/3669745|Geographic distributions are analyzed for 50 species of Coleoptera and Lepidoptera which occur at arid localities bordering the San Joaquin Valley, California. These distributions demonstrate a strong intrusion of deserticolous organisms into the valley, supporting similar evidence provided by plant distributions. Deserticolous insects probably entered the valley most recently during the post-Wisconsin Hypsothermal interval, and have persisted in local areas where aridity is accentuated by porous soils. Although some San Joaquin Valley insect populations are weakly differentiated morphologically from their counterparts in the interior deserts, it is suggested that nomenclatural recognition is inappropriate because of the recency of their isolation and the high probability that continued climatic fluctuation will eliminate them in the relatively near future.
10.2307/3669746|Twenty-nine additions to the vascular flora of Colorado are reported. Atriplex tenuissima A. Nels. is synonymized under A. wolfii S. Wats. Erigeron superbus Greene ex Rydberg is synonymized under E. eximius Greene. The following new combinations are proposed: Antennaria pulcherrima ssp. anaphaloides, Arenaria hookeri ssp. desertorum, A. hookeri ssp. pinetorum, Grammica cephalanthi, G. coryli, G. cuspidata, G. denticulata, G. indecora, G. indecora ssp. neuropetala, G. umbellata, G. umbrosa, G. occidentalis and G. pentagona, Ligularia amplectens, L. bigelovii, L. bigelovii spp. hallii, L. holmii, L. pudica, L. soldanella and L. taraxacoides, Phlox sibirica ssp. pulvinata.
10.2307/3669747|Clonal material of Kalanchoe velutina (Crassulaceae) was subjected to low night temperature (60F) with varied day temperatures. Flower induction took place in these plants, while the plants without the low night temperature showed no floral initiation. Flower formation was accompanied by stem elongation, greater leaf length, width, thickness and a reduction in the number of pairs of leaves.
10.2307/3669748|The taxonomy of Pericome (Compositae) is reviewed in connection with recent systematic studies of the subtribe Peritylinae. Included are distributional notes, descriptions, and a key to the two species, P. caudata and P. macrocephala.
10.2307/3670294|In September 1901, Professor L. M. Underwood and Mr. A. D. Selby engaged in a botanical collecting trip in west-central Colorado to obtain vascular plants as a contribution to the flora of the Rocky Mountains. An itinerary of the trip has been reconstructed from information on the labels of a set of 718 specimens retained by Mr. Selby now in The Ohio State University Herbarium and from data in the field notebooks of Professor Underwood at the New York Botanical Garden. Twenty taxa named by Per Axel Rydberg based on the collection are enumerated with the citation of the original publication, the locality, date, and number on the specimen, and the designated kind of type in The Ohio State University Herbarium.
10.2307/3670295|Vegetation patterns of the White Mountains in southern New Mexico were studied to assess successional trends after disturbance and to determine the relative effects of elevation and exposure on vegetation patterns. Nested quadrats were used at 42 different sites. Eleven areas which had been burned from three to 80 years ago were used for the successional studies. Fire results in a successional sequence of forbs, followed by deciduous shrubs and trees and finally conifers. The return to mixed coniferous stands occurs at a much slower rate than would be expected from the existing literature. Some areas previously thought to have been occupied by mixed conifer stands may have been occupied primarily by oak. Exposure was found to be a more important factor in determining vegetation patterns than elevation. Some unexpected distributions of vegetation with elevation were found and are thought to be due to wind desiccation of summit areas.
10.2307/3670296|Germination of huisache (Acacia farnesiana [L.] Willd.) seeds is restricted by an impermeable seed coat. Mechanical scarification or soaking seeds in concentrated sulfuric acid for 45 to 60 min resulted in 65 to 70% germination. More huisache seeds germinated at 30 C than at 16, 21 or 38 C. At the optimum temperature, germination was not reduced by osmotic pressures of 4 atm. Germination and seedling growth were favored by a pH range of 6 to 8. Huisache seeds were not light sensitive, and optimum seedling emergence from soil occurred when seeds were planted 2 cm deep. Percent germination at 30 C was not reduced by less than 5,000 ppm NaCl or MgCl<sub>2</sub> in aqueous solution but seedling development was inhibited by 300 ppm NaCl or 150 ppm MgCl<sub>2</sub>.
10.2307/3670297|Chromosome numbers of n = 1 are reported for six species of Astragalus, section Strigulosi. The chromosome number allies the section with New World groups of Astragalus, (mostly n = 11 or 12) and not Old World groups (x = 8). Descriptive notes are added for the heretofore rare A. altus.
10.2307/3670298|Chromosome numbers are reported for eleven species of western American plants. New reports are given for Eriogonum caespitosum Nutt., n = 20; Caulanthus glaber (M. E. Jones) Rydb., n = 14; Dodecatheon pulchellum (Raf.) Merr., n = 22; Lupinus holmgrenianus C. P. Smith, n = 24; Penstemon arenarius Greene, n = 8; Penstemon pahutensis N. H. Holmgren, n = 8; and Encelopsis nudicaule (A. Gray) A. Gray, n = 17. Additional counts are reported for Eriogonum ovalifolium Nutt. var. multiscapum Gand., n = 20; Frasera pahutensis Reveal, n = 13; Penstemon albomarginatus M. E. Jones, n = 8; and Psilostrophe cooperi (A. Gray) Greene, n = 16.
10.2307/3670299|The occurrence and host-parasite relationships of eight common helminth parasites of four species of sunfish from three Oklahoma locations was studied. Two sites represented a mature man-made reservoir and partially flooded tributary stream; the third, an intermittent stream about to be covered with the rising water of a new impoundment. Parasite species and their incidence varied in different hosts in the same area, in the same host in different locations, in the same species of fish of different sexes and ages, and in fish during different seasons of the year. The greatest number of fish were infected during the fall and winter, and all helminth species were represented in fish by the time hosts were one year of age. Those parasites inhabiting the intestinal tract were of low extensity throughout the life span of the fish. Tissue-inhabiting parasites accumulated to high extensities in older fish, except for the plerocercoid of Proteocephalus ambloplitis and acanthocephalan cystocanths which rapidly disappeared as the host aged. A higher incidence of infection was found in female fish than in males for all species of parasites.
10.2307/3670301|Nine species of rodents were studied with respect to their distribution among 12 plant communities representing six distinct habitats in north-central Kansas. Each species of mammal occurred in at least two of the habitats. A two-dimensional ordination was constructed from dissimilarity values obtained by analyses of small mammal populations inhabiting the 12 communities. The presence of a continuum among communities was demonstrated by plotting the distribution of prominence values on the ordination; however, certain species exhibited definite preference for particular habitats. Life form of the vegetation apparently affected distribution of the species of rodents more than did the presence of particular species of plants.
10.2307/3670302|Data are presented on six families and 16 species of cetaceans known to inhabit Texas waters. These are Physeter catodon, Kogia breviceps, Kogia simus, Mesoplodon europaeus, Ziphius cavirostris, Feresa attenuata, Globicephala macrorhyncha, Orcinus orca, Pseudorca crassidens, Stenella plagiodon, Stenella frontalis, Tursiops truncatus, Steno bredanensis, Balaenoptera physalus, Balaenoptera musculus, and Balaena glacialis. Exact localities where these whales and dolphins have been sighted or washed ashore are given. Extension of previously known range is indicated for Ziphius cavirostris, Pseudorca crassidens, and Steno bredanensis. A simplified key is presented to aid in the identification of each species.
10.2307/3669785|New, or verification of old, records for seventeen species of birds occurring in the southern Guadalupe Mountains, Culberson Co., Texas, are reported. Specimens of Caprimulgus vociferus, Eugenes fulgens, Sayornis nigricans, Nucifraga columbiana, Catharus ustulatus, Vireo olivaceus, Dendroica pensylvanica, and Icterus cucullatus, were collected and represent the first specimen records of these species for the Guadalupe Mountain region of Culberson Co. Sightings and specimen records indicate that Buteo albonotatus, Falco peregrinus, Actitis macularia, Eugenes fulgens, Sphyrapicus varius, Empidonax oberholseri, Vermivora virginiae, Icterus cucullatus, and Loxia curvirostra breed, or are potential breeders, in the area under consideration.
10.2307/3669786|Based on field studies of a Texas population, the thermal ecology of the northernmost anole (Anolis carolinensis) is described in terms of mean and preferred body temperatures. Multiple linear regression analyses of mean body temperatures from 37 anole populations show significant positive regressions with ambient light level and latitude, and a significant negative relationship with elevation. We contrast the roles of mean body temperature in adaptive strategies of dispersal from lowland tropical sites (1) into low temperate latitudes and (2) up tropical mountains. It appears that with dispersal, the behavior patterns which control mean body temperature (i.e., habitat selection and basking) have been readily modified evolutionarily with the result that changes in a whole suite of other life-history characteristics have been minimized.
10.2307/3669787|Distributional and habitat data on nine species of New Mexico turtles are presented by locality maps and text. The state's turtle fauna consists of Chelydra serpentina, Kinosternon flavescens, K. sonoriense, Terrapene ornata, Chrysemys picta, Pseudemys concinna, P. scripta elegans, P. scripta gaigae, Trionyx muticus, T. spiniferus emoryi, and T. spiniferus hartwegi.
10.2307/3669788|Reproductive effort was studied in the Gila topminnow, Poeciliopsis o. occidentalis, attempting to relate it to life-history strategy of the species. Results indicated that reproductive effort increased in all age classes in this resource-limited organism when it is provided with greater availability of resources. Components of effort accounting for this increase were primarily fecundity, with a possible contribution by cal/mg in eggs. Results also indicated that reproductive effort increased with age; however, correlations were higher in an area with high resource-availability. The component of reproductive effort accounting for this increase was again fecundity. Although there was a decrease of cal/mg with age, there was a corresponding increase in mean egg weight, resulting in no significant change in cal/egg with age.
10.2307/3669789|A new snail, Holospira (Bostrichocentrum) metcalfi n.sp is described from the Little Hatchet Mountains of New Mexico. The snail is most closely related to H. (B.) bilamellata Dall from the Big Hatchet Mountains. The two species are allopatric. They are obligate inhabitants of limestone and are isolated from each other by intervening alluvial and igneous deposits.
10.2307/3669790|Ten species of gastropods are listed from Howells Ridge, a limestone escarpment in Grant County, New Mexico. Probably only five of these species presently live on the Ridge. One species was found only in cave deposits. Four species occur as fossils in colluvial hillslope deposits and probably have become extinct in Holocene time. It is suggested that much of the fauna seems to be in a process of extinction. Chief source of the fauna is probably the Big Hatchet Mountains to the southeast.
10.2307/3669791|Pollination of Arceuthobium americanum, a dwarf mistletoe parasitic on Pinus contorta, was investigated in northern Utah and northern Colorado. At least 25 insect species were observed on pistillate and staminate flowers and A. americanum is thought to be primarily insect-pollinated. The most common insect visitors were Diptera (Anthomyiidae, Syrphidae, Calliphoridae, Muscidae, Ephydridae) and Hymenoptera (Formicidae). The effective distance of wind pollination of A. americanum has not been determined.
10.2307/3669792|There have been conflicting reports of Pinus quadrifolia needle number since Parry discovered this pine in 1850. Field studies were made of this species and of nearby populations of P. monophylla to determine their genetic relationship. It is concluded that P. quadrifolia results from natural hybridization between P. monophylla and a heretofore unrecognized 5-needle pinyon pine. Various hybrid segregates have been identified. The new species is described as P. juarezensis Lanner, Sierra Jurez pinyon. This interpretation reconciles conflicting morphological descriptions, and explains the phenotypic variation visible in the field. Characters analyzed are needle number, resin canal number, twig hairiness and stomate position. It is speculated that P. juarezensis may in the future be introgressed out of existence as a distinct entity.
10.2307/3669793|The genus Malvella Jaub. & Spach is segregated from Sida L. and reviewed. It includes four species: one from the Old World [M. sherardiana (L.) Jaub. & Spach] and three from the New World. Two new combinations are made [M. lepidota (A. Gray) Fryx. and M. sagittifolia (A. Gray) Fryx.]; these two species are confined to the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. The remaining species [M. leprosa (Ort.) Krapov.] occurs from Washington and Idaho south to central Mexico, and also in South America from Peru to Uruguay. New characters distinguishing the genus Malvella are discussed, and a key to the species is included.
10.2307/3670272|Cryptantha atwoodii Higgins a smooth-fruited species is described as new. The plant is a rare and local species known only from Coconino County in northern Arizona.
10.2307/3670273|Part two of a biosystematic study of the Caltha leptosepala complex in the Rocky Mountains involves analyses of anatomy and palynology. Data obtained from the natural populations investigated support the premise that only one species, Caltha leptosepala, can be taxonomically justified for the Rocky Mountains.
10.2307/3670274|Three new varieties of Hackelia (H. patens var. harrisonii, H. pinetorum var. jonesii and H. ursina var. diaboli are described and three new combinations (H. besseyi, H. brevicula and H. ursina var. pustulata are made. Additional data concerning these taxa and combinations are presented including distribution maps. Lappula floribunda var. geisiana is placed in synonymy under H. amethystina. The geographical range of H. amethystina is extended to Plumas and Placer counties in the Sierra Nevada of California.
10.2307/3670275|Two stands of quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides Michx.) were selected, one at 3,048 m and the other at 2,530 m in the Sandia Mountains of New Mexico. Samples of aspen bark were collected every two to three weeks from the upper stand and every two months from the lower stand. The pigments were extracted from the bark with 80% acetone and spectrophotometric measurements of optical density were made on this acetone extract. The equations used for calculations of chlorophyll concentrations were those developed by MacKinney (1941). Carotenoids were recovered with petroleum ether and spectrophotometric measurements of the optical densities were made. Results show chlorophyll and carotenoids to be present in the bark the year-round. The highest concentrations occur in late summer and the lowest occur in winter. No degradation products were found. Of the carotenoids, B-carotene was lowest in concentration and lutein was highest. The chlorophyll concentration of the bark of the upper stand was generally twice as great as that of the lower stand. There is evidence for a cyclic change through the year for both stands. Environmental factors implicated in these changes are soil moisture, air temperature, light intensity, and photoperiod.
10.2307/3670276|On the Republican River floodplain in Clay County, Kansas, 39 forest stands were plot sampled in 1968. Salix interior (sandbar willow), S. amygdaloides (almondleaf willow), and Populus deltoides (cottonwood) appeared the first or second year after alluvium was exposed above water level. Salix interior rarely persisted more than 10 years, S. amygdaloides not more than 30 years, and P. deltoides about a century. Young of these species did not survive in established stands. After about 100 years dominant trees included Ulmus americana (American elm), Celtis occidentalis (common hackberry), Fraxinus pensylvanica (green ash), Morus rubra (red mulberry), and Acer negundo (boxelder). No stand had attained climax, but Celtis occidentalis and Ulmus americana would likely have been dominants. Celtis may be the sole dominant in the future now that Dutch elm disease has entered the area. For young (0-10) and old (>60 years stands, mean tree density was 24,000/ha (9,710/acre) and 5,000/ha (2,020/acre), mean basal area was <tex-math>$20\ \text{m}^{2}/\text{ha}$</tex-math> <tex-math>$(87\ \text{ft}^{2}/\text{acre})$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$39\ \text{m}^{2}/\text{ha}$</tex-math> <tex-math>$(170\ \text{ft}^{2}/\text{acre})$</tex-math> and mean basal area per tree > 6 cm diameter was 58 and <tex-math>$638\ \text{cm}^{2}$</tex-math> respectively. The amount of light that penetrated the forest capony ranged from 18% in young to 2% in old stands. Competition, especially effects of shading, is thought to be more important than changes in soil in eliminating pioneer woody species. Polygonum lapathifolium, Ambrosia trifida and Conyza canadensis were the most common herbs in young stands. Galium aparine had a frequency of 20% in young stands and over 70% in stands more than 30 years old. Rhus radicans and Parthenocissus quinquifolia were absent in young but common in old stands.
10.2307/3670277|Ten species of decapods, nine crawfishes and one grass shrimp, are reported from the Navasota River drainage of central Texas. One species appears to be endemic to the river system while the range of two other species is extended to included the Navasota River. A brief discussion is given for each species along with collecting localities. The general distribution for each species in Texas is also noted.
10.2307/3670278|The Leon Springs pupfish, Cyprinodon bovinus Baird and Girard, has been rediscovered after being considered extinct for more than 30 years. The present population is restricted to an 8-10 km segment of Leon Creek and contiguous springs about 15 km downstream from, and in the same drainage as, the type locality for the species. The species is redescribed and its populational status and relationships to other species of Cyprinodon are discussed.
10.2307/3670279|The Pratt Cave subrecent (< 6000 B. P.) herpetofauna contains 18 species. Some large, abundant reptiles may have been introduced as food by aborigines or other predators, while small, secretive species could have entered naturally. No extinct or geographically extralimital species are present. The herpetofauna is modern and predominantly dry-adapted but contains an ecologically displaced species and other evidence of a succession of less to more xeric ecosystems.
10.2307/3670280|Revised geographic distributions are presented for Eutamias townsendii ochrogenys Merriam, E. t. senex (J. A. Allen) and E. t. siskiyou A. H. Howell from northern California and southern Oregon. Statistical analyses of each of these three subspecies demonstrate small but significant differences in external and cranial measurements and major differences in the morphology of the genital bones which appear to provide adequate evidence to elevate these subspecies to species level: Eutamias ochrogenys, Eutamias senex and Eutamias siskiyou.
10.2307/3669927|In the summer of 1938 a study was made of 50 old fields on 13 projects and camps (Dust Bowl) under the direction of the Division of Research, Region 6, Soil Conservation Service. The vegetation of each field was carefully checked by walking or driving over the field, listing the species encountered, and photographing typical areas. If alternes or distinct lines between plant types occurred, the survey was at right angles to these. An attempt was made to give the relative abundance of the species. Studies were made on fields that had been abandoned from one to eight, ten to thirteen, fifteen, twenty, twenty-one, twenty-seven, forty and fifty years. Since most old fields were severely wind eroded, succession may have been erratic and certainly impeded. Four stages in secondary succession occurred in the vegetation's return to the original plant cover. These were (1) primary or annual weed stage; (2) mixed annual-perennial stage, (3) perennial stage; and (4) short grass or climax stage.
10.2307/3669928|The density, mean plant height and mean plant width of the perennial shrubs in a desert arroyo were compared with the soil water potential gradient along the arroyo during one growing season. The data indicated that the density of shrubs was negatively correlated with the soil water potential gradient and shrub mean size positively correlated with the gradient. The variation in the vegetation parameters could not be accounted for by the soil water potential gradient alone.
10.2307/3669929|A taxonomic investigation of C. glabrescens and the closely related C. watsonii was carried out. Morphological studies of intra- and interpopulational variation revealed that characters which have been used to circumscribe the two species are found combined in many plants. More than 60% of the individuals studied could not be placed into either species as previously circumscribed. Eleven plants with various morphological features were examined chromosomally and all had the diploid number of 2n = 18. The flavonoid chemistry of the 50 plants exexamined was identical and consisted of isorhamnetin 3-O-glucoside and isorhamentin 3-O-rutinoside. This flavonoid profile is unique for all western North American species of Chenopodium. It is concluded that only one species, C. watsonii, should be recognized. The relationships of C. watsonii within Chenopodium are discussed.
10.2307/3669930|A survey of the fishes of the Cossatot River in southwestern Arkansas produced 53 species representing 13 families. Nine additional species have been reported by others, for a total of 62 species known to occur in the Cossatot River. General distribution and relative abundance of each species are reported. Two specimens of the leopard darter (Percina pantherina) were collected in this survey, representing an eastward extension of the known range for this rare species.
10.2307/3669931|Several aspects of growth and development of free-tailed bats, Tadarida brasiliensis cynocephala (Le Conte), are described. Some information on the date of copulation and the length of gestation, as well as behavior of young bats, is also presented. Young of T. b. cynocephala hang in compact clusters and when disturbed demonstrate a negative geotaxic response and clinging response. Young bats 25 to 30 days of age can not be separated from adults on the basis of body weight, but most young animals reach the total length of adults at about 60 days of age. Changes in proportions of wing elements are related to growth; wings of young animals are broader than the wings of adult bats. Young bats are capable of maneuverable adult-like flight at about 38 days of age.
10.2307/3669932|Onset of the breeding season and size of first litters were determined for eastern cottontails, Sylvilagus floridanus chapmani (J. A. Allen) and Audubon cottontails, S. audubonii neomexicanus Nelson, collected 23 mi NW of Big Lake, Texas. All of the rabbits were euthanized 9 March 1973; all of the 10 males examined were in breeding condition. All 13 females examined were pregnant with their first litter of the season. The breeding season for chapmani started between 2 and 4 March, and for neomexicanus between 27 February and 2 March. Neomexicanus is believed to be a synchronous breeder. The mean litter size of chapmani was 4.00 and neomexicanus was 3.3. Six percent of the ova produced by neomexicanus failed to implant and 16 percent of their embryos were resorbed. The mean ovulation rate for chapmani was 4.66 and no resorbing embryos were found.
10.2307/3669933|An ecological study of Merriam's pocket mouse, Perognathus merriami, was conducted on a 5.6 acre plot from 21 August 1966 through 1 August 1967. The study area was located one mile south and one mile west of Riviera, Kleberg County, Texas. A total of 5922 live-trap nights yielded 154 captures of 43 individuals which were marked and released. More pocket mice were found on the study area in the summer and autumn than at other seasons. Winter density estimates suggested pocket mice were dormant because of inclement weather. Breeding activity was first detected in April and extended to November. Two litters were produced in one year by adult females. Density reached a peak in October and November because of breeding activity and appearance of sub-adults. Juvenal mice traveled greater average distances between capture sites than did adult mice. Resident mice maintained a home burrow and several refuge or food caching burrows within their home range boundaries. The absence of overlap of adjacent home ranges onto burrow areas of individual mice suggested a burrow area territory. An analysis of food in cheek pouches and in burrow caches indicated Merriam's pocket mice are discriminatory in selection of food.
10.2307/3669934|Structural ecological parameters of a population of Peromyscus maniculatus were investigated following a four year live-trap study conducted on a remnant mixed prairie in west-central Kansas. Deer mice had a non-random distribution on the study area, and preferred habitats dominated by Andropogon gerardi, A. scoparius, and Bouteloua curtipendula; they specifically avoided a weedy community dominated by Helianthus annuus and Kochia scoparia. The lowest crude densities (1.8/ha) were recorded in spring of 1968, and the highest (17.7) occurred in autumn of 1966. Ecological densities ranged from spring and summer lows (4.0/ha) in the weedy community to autumn highs of (19.3/ha) in the A. gerardi habitat. Over the four years, the population invariably peaked in mid-autumn to early winter, was least dense in mid-winter to early spring, experienced a minor peak in spring, and declined slightly in summer. Population turnover was 43% complete in six months and 95% complete in twelve months. Males and females that were caught more than once averaged 154 and 147 days on the study area, respectively. Significantly more males than females were captured during the study, but no significant differences between males and females were noted in greatest distance traveled. Certain individuals moved more than 245 m in one day. Home ranges of males (0.11-0.72 ha) and females (0.12-0.77 ha) did not differ significantly, but home ranges (0.31  0.02 ha) of both sexes pooled during spring and summer were significantly greater than those (0.27  0.02 ha) pooled during autumn and winter. Territoriality was more pronounced in females than males.
10.2307/3669935|Summer gross primary productivity and community respiration along Cedar Creek in Chase County, Kansas, were estimated by the daily oxygen change method. Mean gross primary productivity increased from upstream to downstream while the opposite trend was true for community respiration. Observed daily gross primary productivity varied from less than 1.0 to <tex-math>$32.3\ \text{g}\ \text{O}_{2}/\text{m}^{2}/\text{day}$</tex-math> and community respiration varied from 5.52 to <tex-math>$26.4\ \text{g}\ \text{O}_{2}/\text{m}^{2}/\text{day}$</tex-math>.
10.2307/3669936|Neivamyrmex angulimandibulatus, n. sp. (Formicidae: Dorylinae) from Cordoba, Vera Cruz, Mexico is described from five males. Illustrations include a profile of the whole ant, forewing, hindwing, frontal view of head, ventral view of the subgenital plate, and lateral views of the sagitta, volsella and stipes. This new species is most closely related to N. rosenbergi and N. diabolus.
10.2307/3669937|Information on the life history, habits, host plants, parasites and taxonomy is presented for 9 species of the weevil genus, Anthonomus. Included are new host records for 5 species and new parasite records for 4 species. The pupal and larval stages of Anthonomus dealbatus Champion and A. heterogenus Dietz are described and illustrated. Anthonomus callirrhoae Pierce is synonymized with Anthonomus squamans Champion (New Synonymy).
10.2307/3670392|Camelops traviswhitei, from the Cedazo local fauna, Tacubaya Formation, medial Pleistocene age, differs from described species of Camelops in sharply "V"-shaped lakes in both upper and lower cheek teeth, with moderately thick enamel on the labial sides of the lakes but very thin enamel on the lingual sides, and lacking cementum in the lakes. Other species of Camelops have bent-oval lakes, bordered on both lingual and labial sides by thick enamel, and filled with cementum.
10.2307/3670393|One hundred and ninety species of wood-rotting Basidiomycetes in the series Hymenomycetes of the subclass Homobasidiomycetes are reported from New Mexico. Data on substratum relationships and types of rot are given.
10.2307/3670394|Aster sonorae, a lavender-rayed, annual taxon, previously thought to be synonymous with the white-rayed, perennial, A. riparius H.B.K., is shown to be a valid species of saline habitats of north central Mexico. Its morphology is problematic, suggesting a relationship with both sect. Oxytripolium of Aster and Machaeranthera. Meiotic complements from several populations show the chromosome number to be n = 5, comprising one large pair, 2 medium, j-shaped pairs, and two small v-shaped pairs. The phyletic implications of these data with respect to both Aster and Machaeranthera are discussed.
10.2307/3670395|The White Sands pupfish, Cyprinodon tularosa, is described from the Tularosa basin, New Mexico, the site of Pleistocene Lake Otero. Although that lake did not overflow, it is inferred that there was a pre-Wisconsin connection with the Rio Grande basin in order to permit entry of the pupfish into the endorheic basin. The new species, a member of the Cyprinodon variegatus complex, is evidently closest to C. bovinus of western Texas, from which it differs in certain meristic and morphometric characters (smaller scales, fewer pelvic rays, more gill rakers), female color pattern, and in the breeding colors of the male. Both species may have arisen from a C. variegatus-like ancestor during Pleistocene time.
10.2307/3670396|In the southern portion of the tall-grass prairie, Panicum virgatum L. (Switchgrass) is composed of two ecological races, the upland and lowland. The upland race occurs in the tall-grass prairie and the lowland in riverine grasslands. Populations of the upland and lowland races in Oklahoma were sampled to determine their variation in chromosome number and morphology. The lowland population was uniformly tetraploid. The upland population contained both octoploids and aneuploid variants from the octoploid level. No genetic interaction between these two races was detected in a sympatric population. Cluster analysis of morphological variation revealed that the upland race is more closely related to northern populations of the species than to the southern, lowland race.
10.2307/3670397|Observations on aquatic, epigean planarians were made in 22 of the 32 counties in New Mexico from 7-17 June 1971. Four species, all of the family Planariidae, were found: Dugesia dorotocephala was the most widely distributed (21 sites) and occurred within a wide range of environmental conditions, Dugesia tigrina occurred at only one site, Phagocata crenophila was found at two sites, and Polycelis coronata borealis was observed at five sites. The distribution in New Mexico is shown and related to the general distribution in the United States, and environmental data are presented for each species.
10.2307/3670398|Laboratory-germinated seedlings of Acer negundo from a number of habitat sites were grown under increasing and decreasing natural day lengths as well as under controlled photoperiods of 10, 12, 14 and 16 hours. Under all growth conditions the progeny of parental trees of northern or short-growth season sites made the least stem growth and were more sensitive in their photoperiod response when compared to progeny of southern or long-growth season habitats. The inclusion of many sites never tested before gives a broader evaluation of photoperiodic ecotypes in the species. The photoperiodic response of local populations suggests the use of energy for growth and cessation of growth in patterns that fit the local populations into an efficient, yet safe, pattern of site-ecosystem utilization.
10.2307/3670399|Fish sampling was conducted in the Dolores River, Colorado, in 1971 and the Yampa River system of Colorado, 1968-71 with emphasis placed on rare and endangered species. Eleven species were found in the Dolores River, but no rare and endangered forms were collected. Twenty-two species were collected in the Yampa River system, including four rare and endangered forms: Colorado squawfish (Ptychocheilus lucius), humpback chub (Gila cypha) bonytail chub (Gila elegans) and humpback sucker (Xyrauchen texanus). The Yampa system appeared important to reproduction and preservation of Colorado squawfish.
10.2307/3670400|Plexiglas plates attached to floating rafts were used to measure productivity, species diversity, and pigment diversity of periphyton in Skeleton Creek, Oklahoma, a stream receiving domestic and oil refinery wastes. Samples were collected at three to seven day intervals during five exposure periods, each approximately two months in duration. A discontinuous, linear regression model was developed to analyze growth curves of periphyton. The slope of the regression line fitted to the acceleration phase of growth was used to estimate productivity. Twenty-two taxa of algae were identified. Diatoms dominated the flora except at upstream stations during the winter when Euglena viridis was the most abundant. Productivity generally decreased downstream below the pollution outfalls. Zero slope was maintained during the asymptotic phase of growth as increases in biomass were balanced by sloughing and grazing. The ratio of productivity to biomass did not indicated spatial or temporal successional stages in the periphyton community. No significant difference in values of d was found in independent samples of size 100, 200, 300, or 400 for the fall or spring and a sample size of 100 was used to calculate d. Species diversity increased downstream from the pollution outfalls indicating a more varied periphyton community and an improvement in water quality. Pigment diversity and the ratio between biomass and chlorophyll exhibited little spatial or temporal variations.
10.2307/3670401|From 1969 to 1972, 77 nests of the loggerhead shrike were located and studied in the shortgrass prairie of northcentral Colorado to determine various parameters of nest ecology, productivity, and growth. The shrikes arrived in the first week of April, and clutch initiation peaked in the second week of May. All nests were in above ground situations with a mean net height of 2.03 m. Mean clutch size was 6.39, with a mean incubation period of 16 days. Double-broodedness was never observed; however, renesting was common. Nesting, hatching, and fledging success were 66.2, 79.5, and 55.9%, respectively. Predation accounted for 52% of all nest failures and adverse weather for 33%. Young shrikes averaged 4.06 g upon hatching, gained 3.11 g/day for 12 days, and averaged 42.07 g at fledging on the 17th day.
10.2307/3670007|Stomach analyses of 86 Sceloporus undulatus tristichus from central Arizona indicate Isoptera are major food items, both numerically and volumetrically in late July and August. Predation on the southwestern pine tip moth, Rhyacionia neomexicana, is apparently insignificant. Four families of insects and ten families of spiders are reported as prey of Sceloporus for the first time.
10.2307/3670008|An emended diagnosis of the genus is provided. Three new species are described: Lechytia sini and Lechytia arborea, both from Florida and Texas, and Lechytia hoffi from several western states. The relations of these to other American species are discussed.
10.2307/3670009|In the laboratory the early development of Pardosa sierra and P. ramulosa was similar. Carapace width and volume were measured. P. sierra is a larger spider with a total volume about three times as great as P. ramulosa. P. sierra matured in seven to nine instars in the laboratory while P. ramulosa took only six to eight instars. Maturity required an average of two months longer for P. sierra. In the field where the temperatures varied more and hence food intake per unit time was certainly less, these species took approximately an additional month to mature. The lengths of the instars varied, from 10 to 31 days, but there was no obvious regularity. This is similar to life cycle data for other spiders. In the field the number of individuals in catches was affected by weather conditions. For example, catches were smaller when the temperature was above 30 C and humidity was low, than when temperature was lower and humidity higher. Adults of both species were found at any month of the year, but the greatest population of adults occurred in February and March. In both species populations and catches showed similar results. These species fit the category of spiders in which the instars are variable and the size is dependent upon the total length of the life cycle.
10.2307/3670010|The phytoplankton of a central Arizona reservoir, Canyon Lake, were enumerated from March, 1971 through February, 1972. Over 100 species were identified as belonging to the following classes: Chlorophyceae 42 species, Bacillariophyceae 46 species, Cyanophyceae 8 species, Chrysophyceae 3 species, Euglenophyceae 4 species, and Dinophyceae 2 species. More than 50 species are new additions to the algal flora of Arizona. The largest phytoplankton populations were recorded in February-March and August-September.
10.2307/3670011|Two distinctly different ground-surface arachnid populations were inadvertently discovered in the Tularosa Basin of New Mexico by the operation of alcohol-glycol charged can traps from June through August of 1972. A population just south of Alamogordo, N.M. was dominated by a web-building spider, Psilochorus imitatus Gertsch and Mulaik, supported by 11 relatively common spiders and a common solpugid. A much smaller population within White Sands National Monument was dominated by three prevalent spiders, Callilepis n. sp., Lycosa coloradensis Banks, and P. imitatus in that order of abundance, supported by five relatively common spiders and a common scorpion.
10.2307/3670012|Parry agave had no dormancy requirements and germinated equally well in light or darkness. Optimum constant temperature was near 25C. Germination was delayed progressively at water stresses to -5.0 bars, and virtually ceased at -10 bars. Germination was best at a pH of 7.0 to 8.0, and declined at 8.5
10.2307/3670013|Quantitative comparison of an oak savannah with a post oak-blackjack forest indicates that the forest was a savannah before about 1890. The savannah and the forest have similar numbers of trees larger than 12.5 cm DBH, while the forest has many more small stems than the savannah. Due to the different nature of the litter in the two stands, a fire kills most of the small woody vegetation in the savannah, while leaving the small woody vegetation in the forest relatively undamaged. The recent conversion of most central Oklahoma savannahs to forests is probably due to the reduction in frequency and intensity of fires.
10.2307/3670014|Male army ants from west Texas, southern New Mexico, and southeastern Arizona previously referred to as Neivamyrmex fuscipennis (Wheeler) are more closely related to N. macropterus Borgmeier than are specimens from east Texas. Although males of N. macropterus tend to have longer wings, less swollen postocular regions, and shorter distances between their lateral ocelli and compound eyes, the above two species are so closely related that none of these features will distinguish all specimens, especially those intermediate in geographical range. A more discrete measurement may be the division of the forewing length by the alitrunk length. A lectotype is designated for N. fuscipennis.
10.2307/3670015|This paper presents a key to all 35 North American species of the crustacean order Anostraca described prior to October 1974, with a review of the relevant taxonomic literature since Dexter 1959. Also included is a distributional listing based on published records and specimens in the National Museum of Natural History.
10.2307/3670016|Food habits of the unique Devils Hole pupfish, Cyprinodon diabolis Wales, which until recently established in refugia was known only from Devils Hole, a limnocrene in Nye County, Nevada, were studied from data collected during a 14-month period. A general pattern of opportunism in feeding and responses to variations in food supplies was indicated. Inorganic particulate matter remained highest in volume, frequency of occurrence, and numerically throughout the period. The green alga, Spirogyra, and various diatoms were about equal in occurrence, but varied seasonally in a reciprocal manner with diatoms being most important in winter and spring. The amphipod, Hyalella, was present more frequently than either an unidentified ostracod or protozoans which were found at about the same frequency. Other endemic organisms found in small numbers were the elmid beetle, Stenelmis, a turbellarian, Dugesia, and a hydrobiid snail, Tryonia. Six of the 66 available stomachs were empty.
10.2307/3670017|A study of the banded rock lizard (Petrosaurus mearnsi) utilizing visual observations has revealed some aspects of the home range behavior of this species. The home range of an adult male approximates 900 ft<sup>2</sup>, that of an adult female 450 ft<sup>2</sup>. The animals appear to be monogamous with the female's range being essentially contained within the male's area. The home range is entered by many transient lizards which are bobbed at and displaced by the resident males and females. This study was designed to observe the interactions and activity inside and between the home ranges of this species.
10.2307/3670018|A distinctive new dwarfed species from the Tames-Pnuco stream complex of the Atlantic drainage basin of Mxico is belatedly described. It is one of the southernmost members of the speciose family Cyprinidae.
10.2307/3670432|An evaluation and synthesis of factors which restrict the distribution of the Utah prairie dog (Cynomys parvidens) are presented. Four highly important factors are: climate, vegetation, poisoning, and topography. Two factors appear to have been geologically important: climatic changes and interspecific competition. It is hypothesized that the Utah prairie dog occupied large segments of the Great Basin in post glacial times, although expansion into what is now central Utah probably was halted by interspecific competition. Recently the species' range has been reduced in the western portion as a result of drying trends and invasion of shrubby vegetation. Poisoning has been the most operative recent factor; it has caused constriction of the species' range by approximately 50 percent during the past 50 years.
10.2307/3670433|The confused taxonomic history of Lupinus prunophilus (Papilionaceae) is discussed and its affinities with the morphologically similar L. ammophilus and other putative relatives within the L. ornatus complex and morphologically similar complexes are elucidated. Chemosystematic evidence of alkaloid comparisons support the orthodox morphological, ecological, and geographical distribution data indicating the distinction of the two species; alkaloids lend a diagnostic marker to L. prunophilus. These data are correlated with previous Lupinus evolution studies in concluding that L. prunophilus was derived from the California epicenter in a manner similar to that proposed for other members of the L. ornatus complex and most North American lupines, whereas L. ammophilus was derived from the southern Rocky Mountains, being related more closely to the United States east coast L. perennis complex and the Mexican L. madrensis complex.
10.2307/3670434|Specimens of Urnatella gracilis were collected in benthic samples from the Trinity River, Texas in 1972. Physiochemical conditions of the river were determined at the time of collection. Chemical and physical data suggest that U. gracilis is tolerant to moderately polluted waters, but is never found in highly polluted waters. The presence of the phytoplankton genus Melosira may aid in explaining the distribution of Urnatella.
10.2307/3670435|Behavioral responses of five sympatric species of centrarchids were tested in a thermal gradient. Each species demonstrated a sensitivity to thermal regimes and a capability for selecting particular zones in a thermal environment. Thermal acclimation altered the level of preferred temperature among all centrarchids tested, with a positive correlation between acclimation and selected temperature. However, the degree of alteration differed appreciably among species.
10.2307/3670436|Population dynamics and standing crops of minnows were examined in a small Upper Sonoran stream, Arizona, between 1969 and 1971. Statistics varied from year to year, largely attributable to hardiness of the respective species, increased streamflow, and flooding. Consistent yearly patterns of change in length and weight and, in most cases, biomass of all three species occurred; however, condition (K) failed to display parallel trends among species. Total biomass of fishes was comprised predominantly of one cyprinid in this small stream in the arid Southwest.
10.2307/3670437|A study on diatom populations using artificial glass substrates was made in Oak Creek, Arizona. A total of 41 diatom species were recorded with quantitative and qualitative changes in diatom populations measured between rhithron and potamon zones. Notably, there was a distinct change from an epilithic cold water flora (e.g. Meridion circulare) in the rhithron zone to an epiphytic warm water flora (Cocconeis spp, Epithemia spp) in the potamon zone. A decrease in diatom diversity was also noted between the rhithron and the potamon zone. Colonization rates in the rhithron zone were greatest at slower current velocities (e.g. 4.5-35.0 cm/sec) for short incubation periods (3 weeks). Nitzschia palea and Gomphonema parvulum were very common in various regions of the stream bed suggesting nutrient-rich conditions.
10.2307/3670438|Interactions between lotus and submersed vegetation were measured in two small lakes on the Welder Wildlife Foundation. The surface area of the lotus leaves was directly proportional to their oven-dry weight; hence leaf biomass was used to enumerate the shading effects of the leaves. The area of necrotic tissue on the lotus leaves increased with the overall area of leaf tissue floating on the water's surface. The biomass of submersed vegetation, principally southern naiad, was reduced as the lotus density, as measured by biomass, increased. Reductions in the submersed vegetation likely affect habitat limitations on invertebrate populations which, in turn, may limit the protein supplies available to aquatic birds and other organisms of higher trophic levels.
10.2307/3670439|The Cuatro Cienegas Basin is a desert valley in central Coahuila, Mexico. The basin floor bears many aquatic habitats and supports a complex mosaic of edaphically-controlled vegetation communities. Spatial distribution and species composition of the communities are controlled by available soil moisture and soil salinity. Riparian sites support dense stands of sedges and cattails. Drier locations peripheral to riparian habitats support an extensive grassland community. Playas, stabilized dunes and other extremely dry areas bear a xerophytic community characterized by certain halophytic chenopods. Control by local vegetation over composition of pollen rain in the basin floor is extreme, and local pollen rain is dominated by grass, Chenopodiaceae-Amaranthus and aquatic pollen types. Fluctuations of proportions of those pollen types characterize pollen rains on the edaphic communities.
10.2307/3670440|Two female oxyopid spiders, Oxyopes scalaris, were observed feeding on male and female Ips pini bark beetles while guarding egg sacs on ponderosa pine in Arizona. A cadaver of a male I. pini was found ensnared in the web of a female theridiid spider, Theridion goodnightorum. Bark beetles are susceptible to spider predation during their flight period.
10.2307/3670441|Miratemnid pseudoscorpions are reported from the western Hemisphere for the first time. A new genus, Brazilatemnus, and two new species, Brazilatemnus browni from Brazil and Diplotemnus rothi from Arizona, are described.
10.2307/3670442|The following 42 species of external parasites were taken from 16 species of bats from Big Bend National Park, Texas mostly during June to September, 1970 and 1971: MACRONYSSIDAE--Chiroptonyssus haematophagus, C. robustipes, C. venezolanus, Cryptonyssus desultorius, Cryptonyssus n. sp., Macronyssus crosbyi, M. longisetosus. Steatonyssus antrozoi, S. emarginatus, S. furmani, S. occidentalis; SPINTURNICIDAE--Periglischrus vargasi, Spinturnix americanus, S. bakeri, S. orri; MYOBIIDAE--Acanthopthirius caudata, Eudusbabekia n. sp.; SARCOPTIDAE--Notoedres myotis; ROSENSTEINIIDAE--Nycteriglyphus n. sp.; TROMBICULIDAE--Tecomatlana texana, Wagenaaria similis, Whartonia perplexa; ARGASIDAE--Ornithodorus kelleyi (?), O. mormoops (?), O. rossi, O. stageri; CIMICIDAE--Cimex pilosellus; POLYCTENIDAE--Hesperoctenes eumops; HECTOPSYLLIDAE--Rhynchopsylla pulex; ISCHNOPSYLLIDAE--Hormopsylla trux, Myodopsylla collinsi, M. gentilis, Sternopsylla texana; NYCTERIBIIDAE--Basilia antrozoi, B. corynorhini, B. forcipata, B. rondanii; STREBLIDAE--Nycterophilia n. sp., Trichobius corynorhini, T. major, T. sphaeronotus, Trichobius n. sp. Five species appear to be new, four others are recorded from the United States for the first time, and several new host records are given.
10.2307/3670443|Tobosa (Hilaria mutica [Buckl.] Benth.) is a rhizomatous perennial grass that has the ability to become completely dormant during periods of drouth stress. Sexual reproduction is poor and aesexual reproduction is usually the only mechanism of propagation. Tobosa is a climax species on clay flats, where it is a highly productive species until it accumulates large amounts of litter. After litter accumulates, productivity drops and it becomes a low quality forage. By removing the litter, production, forage quality, and utilization can be increased. The most successful mechanism to remove litter and stimulate production has been to control burn when soil moisture is adequate.
10.2307/3670444|Live-bearing reproduction is reported in Phrynosoma ditmarsi, a horned lizard species recently rediscovered in mountains in northern Sonora, Mexico. Parturition is timed to coincide with the summer monsoon. Phrynosoma ditmarsi is a distinctive species that is strikingly similar to the short-horned P. douglassi in features of reproduction, structure, and general ecology.
10.2307/3670033|Net primary productivity was determined on a blue grama (Bouteloua gracilis) grassland under two levels of soil nitrogen. Ammonium sulfate was added by hand in the amount of 67 kg of nitrogen per ha. The added nitrogen increased standing crop of all herbage on most sampling dates for both years. The standing crop curves showed a rapid increase during the growing season followed by a sharp decline early in the dormant season and then a gradual leveling off in the late dormant period. The added nitrogen stimulated mostly blue grama and other grasses to some extent but not forbs. Net primary productivity calculated from only peak community standing crop underestimated net primary productivity compared to that calculated from the sum of peaks of species groups and that calculated from the sum of positive increments of species groups. Leaf blades and sheaths contributed most of the herbage weight of blue grama plants early in the growing season, but culms contributed most of the weight later in the growing season and contributed the most of any part to annual net primary productivity during a favorable growing season under added nitrogen. Considering changes in development of plant parts gives a higher estimate of net primary productivity than considering only the entire plant weight of each species.
10.2307/3670034|The life history, taxonomy and distribution of Sibinia sulcatula Casey are discussed. Oviposition is in flower buds of Prosopis glandulosa var. glandulosa Torr. Larval stages are completed within the bud and the mature larva leaves the bud to pupate. Larval and pupal stages are described and illustrated for the first time.
10.2307/3670035|Bluegill and white crappie from Lake Nasworthy, Texas were weighed and measured when alive and again 13 and 69 days after preservation in 10% formalin. Both species shrank slightly in length and increased significantly in weight. These changes had pronounced effects on the coefficient of condition which varied from 108.46 to 117.67% of live values, depending upon the species of fish and the time in preservative. The effect of formalin on the length-weight relationship in white crappie varied with size of fish. No generally usable standard correction factor for length-weight studies of preserved fish was found in this study.
10.2307/3670036|Forested bottomland areas associated with the Trinity River, near Dallas, Texas, have for many years been exploited for their gravel content leaving many seres represented at present by variously aged stages of plant succession. Data obtained by the plot method from excavated 3-, 5-, and 47-year-old gravel pits and an unexcavated forested area were compared to determine successional trends. Herbaceous and vine species, particularly Heterotheca latifolia Buckl. and Smilax Bonanox L. respectively, were prevalent in the 3-year-old gravel pit whereas the trees, Populus deltoides Marsh. and Salix nigra Marsh. dominated the 5-year-old gravel pit. Principal woody species in the 47-year-old gravel pit were Celtis laevigata Willd., Juniperus virginiana L., Ulmus alata Michx., and Rhus Toxicodendron L. The grass Bromus commutatus Schrad. was the dominant herbaceous species. The unexcavated forested area exhibited a rather dense upper canopy composed primarily of Ulmus alata Michx., Quercus stellata Wang. and Prunus mexicana Wats. Panicum laxiflorum Lam. and Carex amphibola Steud. were prominent understory plants.
10.2307/3670037|Aspects of the nesting behavior of a number of bembicine wasps are described for the first time. Of special interest is the discovery that Xerostictia longilabris provisions its nests with adult ant-lions. This is the only nyssonine wasp known to capture living Neuroptera regularly for use as prey.
10.2307/3670038|Percina pantherina, endemic to the Little River system of southeastern Oklahoma and southwestern Arkansas, is uncommon but not immediately in danger of extinction. Its collection from the Cossatot River, Arkansas, in 1971, represents an eastward extension of its known range. Existing and authorized impoundments have or will inundate or otherwise directly damage about 12% of approximately 3600 km of potential leopard darter habitat. Indirect effects of impoundments probably do not pose as great a long-term threat to the leopard darter as do degradations in stream water quality due to other activities. Of the 109 known collections, 52 individuals were taken in 1971-72 for Corps of Engineers' environmental studies being conducted in response to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969.
10.2307/3670039|Eastern Texas and Louisiana white-footed mice, Peromyscus leucopus, were examined for non-geographic and geographic variation in three external and five cranial measurements. Non-geographic variation was found to be as great as geographic variation. Eastern Texas specimens averaged smaller in most measurements, but this trend was not consistent. Eastern Texas specimens previously referred to P. l. brevicaudus are not morphologically distinct from P. l. leucopus.
10.2307/3670040|Rock squirrels (Spermophilus variegatus grammurus) observed in the Chiricahua Mountains of Arizona collected bedding and nesting material, from various sources, in a treed rocky canyon habitat (Transition Zone). Dry leaves were used most frequently. More exceptionally, the sciurids gathered such material as dry pine needle bundles of the Apache pine and fibrous material from decaying agave stumps. They were also seen peeling off long strips of fibrous bark from vines, particularly the Arizona grape (debarking behavior). Possible seasonal shifts in the material used are discussed, particularly in relation with the succession of dry and rainy seasons, respectively. Rock squirrels exhibit more diversity in the kind of material collected than some other ground squirrel species, but this appears to reflect, at least in part, their more diversified habitat, although species differences might also play a part.
10.2307/3670041|The availability of suitable cavities for the nests of black-bellied whistling ducks was determined at two sites in southern Texas. Using criteria from cavities where ducks actually nested, it was determined that one suitable cavity was available for every 19 acres of ebony or live oak savannah. The species of tree per se, however, is not especially important as nests have been found in willow, elm, and others; factors which are important to cavity formation are longevity, wood density, and growth form. Black-bellied whistling ducks may nest in trees at considerable distances from water; over 30 percent of the nests were 500 meters or more from water. Trees with suitable cavities were 64 cm DBH and 52 cm in diameter at the cavity. Entrances averaged 17  31 cm for cavities actually used whereas those in cavities judged suitable for use averaged 19  40 cm. Cavity floor size averaged 664 cm<sup>2</sup> but this area had no relationship to the number of eggs contained in the nest. Biological factors such as understory vegetation and competition from other animals, including predators, are important to the utilization of suitable cavities by whistling ducks. The number of available cavities suitable for nesting, by itself, is not a limiting factor in southern Texas.
10.2307/3670042|In late spring 1971, 1 lb/acre (2,4-dichlorophenoxy) acetic acid (2,4-D) and 1 lb/acre 3,6-dichloro-o-anisic acid (dicamba), salt forms, were applied to separate plots of vegetation in an old rice field in the Coastal Prairie Association of Texas. Forb densities decreased and species composition changed during summer and fall on untreated plots. Treated plots had significantly lower forb densities during summer and fall. No significant difference in forb densities occurred between the two herbicide treatments. Grass seedling densities were over 200% higher on treated plots during summer than on untreated plots. Total herbage yield, at the end of the growing season, was similar on all plots, but grass herbage yields were over 23% greater on the herbicide treated plots than on untreated plots.
10.2307/3670043|The pollination phase in the reproduction of the monoecious Cnidoscolus texanus is primarily nocturnal: pollen and nectar production, peak fragrance emission, and most intense insect visitation to the blossoms all commence with dusk and conclude at dawn. The two principal visitors, the night foraging hawkmoths Hyles lineata and Manduca quinquemaculata, visit both the carpellate and staminate flowers for nectar and carry copious quantities of pollen on their proboscises. Although the plant species is self-compatible, the pattern of flowering for each plant essentially precludes self-fertilization. Therefore the primary mode of reproduction in Cnidoscolus is sphingophilous outcrossing.
10.2307/3670044|Upper Lake Mary, located in the San Francisco mountain volcanic field of northern Arizona (2,082 m), is a long, shallow eutrophic lake. Nutrient levels are relatively high during most of the year, particularly nitrate-nitrogen and total silica. The shallow nature of the lake and long fetch allow prevailing winds to continually redistribute nutrients throughout the water column. Sixteen physico-chemical parameters were measured at regular intervals throughout the year and correlated with the seasonal dynamics of 18 diatom species. Seasonal silica averaged 5.2 mg/l and showed an inverse correlation to seasonal diatom populations. Total diatom populations maintained a complex successional sequence and remained at relatively high levels except during cold mid-winter months. Six diatom species played a major role in the seasonal successional sequence with Melosira granulata var. angustissima the dominant species in the lake.
10.2307/3669859|This investigation catalogues the vascular plant species occurring on a geographically easily definable alpine area in Rocky Mountain National Park, Specimen Mountain. In addition the abundance and environmental preferences of each taxon are noted. A total of 178 species in 35 families are listed for the area.
10.2307/3669860|Vesicular-arbuscular endomycorrhizae were observed in association with the following plants: Atriplex canescens (Pursh) Nutt., Eurotia lanata (Pursh), Amelanchier oreophilus A. Nels., Amelanchier utahensis Koehne, Cercocarpus montanus Raf., Fallugia paradoxa (D. Don) Endl., Holodiscus dumosus (Nutt.) Heller, Purshia tridentata (Pursh) DC., Fendlera rupicola Gray, Philadelphus microphyllus Gray, Quercus gambelii Nutt., Symphoricarpos spp., Artemisia tridentata Nutt., and Rhus trilobata Nutt. Root fungi were stained using acid fuchsin in chloral hydrate solution. Fungal spores were extracted from soil by centrifugal flotation or sieving-decanting methods.
10.2307/3669861|The ultrastructure of neuromasts in the enlarged lateral-line canals of Ericymba buccata is similar to that reported for neuromasts in other fish species. In E. buccata protein crystals occasionally occur in neuromast sense cells. These crystals are described and thought to somehow be involved in cell repair or rapid metabolism. Neuromast sustentacular cells are enlarged, possess peculiar basal processes, partially separated by conspicuous intercellular spaces, and involved in cupular secretion. Beneath each neuromast is a capillary network. It is suggested that nutrients from the capillaries diffuse through the basement membrane, ascend into the intercellular spaces between sustentacular cells, and bathe individual cells of the neuromast. Seemingly the sense and sustentacular cells individually absorb nutrients from the intercellular fluid instead of the sense cells relying upon trophic activities of sustentacular cells.
10.2307/3669862|The effects of a cold front, which decreased water temperatures to freezing, on estuarine fish near Redfish Bay and Port Aransas, Texas are noted. Most Texas estuarine fish appear able to tolerate 6-7 C; torpidity and death occur below this level. A few species, notably the pinfish, Lagodon rhomboides, and the spotted sea trout, Cynoscion nebulosus, can tolerate lower temperatures.
10.2307/3669863|A 35 month mark-recapture study of an earth snake population was conducted in Brazos County, Texas. Monthly trapping success was positively correlated with cumulative rainfall for that month plus the two preceding months. Earth snakes fed entirely on earthworms. Home range area measured via implantation of radioactive tantalum tags was positively correlated with rainfall during the month prior to trailing. Estimates of mean home range size (up to 100 m<sup>2</sup> for adult females) obtained with tantalum tags resembled other estimates based on mark-recapture data. At an age of about one year, minimum mature snout-vent length of females was 197 mm. Females probably first gave birth at age two years. Minimum mature snout-vent length of males was 140 mm (age 7-9 months); males may mate during their first spring. Estimates of population density ranged from 348 snakes/ha in 1969 to 229 snakes/ha in 1971. There was a correspondence between population size and total rainfall during the preceding November-February. Reproduction resulted in estimated annual population increases of 2.6, 3.3, and 2.0 times (1969-1971).
10.2307/3669864|The macroscopic infauna of 11 sandy beaches along the Gulf of Mexico coast and the Pacific coast of Mexico were examined during the summer of 1972. Mexican sandy-beach fauna is impoverished in terms of numbers of species along both coasts in comparison with American tropical beaches. The Gulf of Mexico sand fauna is numerically more abundant and the Pacific sand fauna is significantly less abundant than the respective faunas of American tropical sand beaches. The isopod Excirolana braziliensis and the polychaete Scolelepis agilis are the most frequently occurring species in the sand fauna of Mexico.
10.2307/3669865|The yellow-bellied marmot spends approximately 80% of its life in a burrow. Burrows provide protection from the rigors of the environment, predators and other marmots. They provide a hibernaculum in winter and may function as a nursery in summer. Selection of a burrow site is therefore an important aspect in the biology of marmots. Measurements were made on direction of exposure, angle of slope, drainage, soil type, topographic features, and vegetation. Home burrows occur on open grassy or herb-covered slopes of an angle of 15-40, facing in a northeasterly or southwesterly direction, and containing rocks and boulders. The latter support the burrow and serve as sunning and observation sites. Five dissected home-burrows showed no marked differences in general configuration.
10.2307/3669866|The effect of the Ro Nazas on mammalian distribution is discussed. This river acts as a filter barrier and as a pathway for dispersal for some mammals. Its greatest influence is at the species level, particularly in rodents, where several species are separated into different subspecies on each side of the river.
10.2307/3669867|A study was conducted on the food habits of the western diamondback rattlesnake, Crotalus atrox, in Texas. The digestive tracts of 205 diamondbacks from Texas were examined and yielded 90 food items of three vertebrate classes and 10 vertebrate families. Small mammals comprised the major diet by weight (94.8%) and by frequency of occurrence (86.7%). Birds and lizards each formed a small proportion of the total food. Of all prey species, the woodrat, Neotoma sp., made up the largest diet by per cent weight. Pocket mice, Perognathus sp., were the most frequently ingested prey item and ranked second by per cent weight. Variations in prey size and food intake in relation to predator size were observed. The size of the prey and the total amount of food ingested were roughly proportional to the size of the rattlesnake. Seasonal fluctuations in food ingestion were also noted.
10.2307/3669868|Amphinemura reinerti, a member of the Amphinemura Venusta Complex, is described and the genitalia figured. The species is known only from Cerro Potosi, Nuevo Leon, Mexico, and is probably endemic to this isolated mountain.
10.2307/3669869|The history and systematic status of the scalaris group of the iguanid lizard genus Sceloporus has been re-evaluated. Sceloporus jalapae has been removed and tentatively placed in a separate group with S. ochoterenae (formerly in the siniferus group). An analysis of meristic, mensural, and pattern data led to the conclusion that both S. aeneus and S. scalaris are monotypic. The relationships of S. scalaris and S. goldmani are discussed.
10.2307/3669870|In eastern and western hognose snakes (Heterodon platyrhinos and H. nasicus) maxillae articulate freely with the prefrontal bones; anteroventral movement of ectopterygoid is produced by contraction of m. protractor pterygolideus and is transmitted to a ventrodorsal rotation of maxillae around the prefrontals. This rotation elevates the rear teeth which are utilized to inject venom, then hold and manipulate prey during swallowing. The superior labial gland consists of two parts; viz, a dorsal seromucous venom gland and a ventral mucous supralabial gland. The venom gland is morphologically distinct from the supralabial gland and communicates via a duct with the fang teeth. Extract of combined venom gland and supralabial gland, injected into fence lizards (Sceloporus undulatus hyacinthus) killed 5 of 10 (50%) of these animals, while only 1 of 10 (10%) was killed by infralabial gland extracts. H. nasicus utilizes visual and olfactory cues in locating and catching toads and lizards; H. platyrhinos depends heavily on olfaction. Fangs probably evolved as structures to subdue prey, whose effectiveness was improved by evolution of the venom gland apparatus. In the solenoglyphous condition, further evolution has shifted their primary function to venom injection.
10.2307/3669871|The geographic distributions of three forms of the Rana pipiens complex were determined from samples of populations collected in South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, northwestern Missouri and western Iowa. A few samples from Minnesota and North Dakota were also examined. In most samples, the different forms can readily be identified morphologically. Calls were analyzed for the northern and western forms and were found to correlate with the expected morphotypes. The northern and western forms are sympatric along the Missouri, Elkhorn and Platte Rivers in southeastern South Dakota, eastern Nebraska and western Iowa. Probable hybrids, together with both parental types, were found at a number of localities in the zone of sympatry. The eastern form occurs in southeastern Kansas and is found in sympatry with the western form along a narrow zone of overlap. The results of this study are consistent with the interpretation that the three forms are specifically distinct. The northern, western and eastern forms correspond to Rana pipiens, R. blairi and R. sphenocephala of other authors.
10.2307/3670317|Estimates of colony densities of active colonies of ants were made at frequent intervals throughout the year in two Chihuahuan desert communities: a creosotebush bajada and mesquite-mormon tea playas fringe community. Densities of harvester ants, Pogonomyrmex, were higher on the playa site; and seed harvesters, Pheidole, were higher on the bajada. Some ant species exhibited specific habitat requirements with regard to soil type and/or plant cover: Formica perpilosa, Pogonomyrex imbericulus, Trachymyrmex smithi neomexicanus. Other species were more generally distributed. Two congeneric species pairs exhibited differences in seasonal activities suggesting competitive interactions. Peak densities of active ant colonies exceeded 4,000 colonies ha<sup>-1</sup> on the playa and 2,000 colonies ha<sup>-1</sup> on the bajada.
10.2307/3670318|The Taylor Bayou local fauna is a Pleistocene lacustrine deposit from Harris County, Texas. Due to the similarity to the Sims Bayou local fauna and the Ingleside Fauna, The Taylor Bayou local fauna is referred to the same age, late Wisconsin, 35,000 to 50,000 B. P. A complete faunal list of mammals is included.
10.2307/3670319|Feeding occurred in the open, on the ground and in shrubs. A sit and wait strategy was employed. Foods of mainland and island populations of H. propinqua were similar in that the same items were eaten, but the proportions of individual items differed markedly. Only beetles were an important item in both populations. Similarly, analysis of seasonal variation in the island population showed that the same kinds of prey were eaten throughout the year, but the proportions varied from season to season. Foods of juveniles were more similar to foods of adults of the same population than to those of juveniles of the differing population. Comparison of the food habit of H. propinqua and closely related species of the genera Holbrookia, Cophosaurus and Callisaurus suggested that all are opportunistic feeders. No endoparasites were found in mainland lizards, but tapeworms were found in 23.8% of the island adults and nematodes were found in 25.7% of the island adult stomachs.
10.2307/3670320|Guardiola thompsonii Van Faasen, sp. nov. from Michoac, Mexico is described and discussed.
10.2307/3670321|A small population of Apocynum sibiricum Jacq. flowers was visited for nectar by a variety of insects, but species of Lepidoptera were the sole potential pollen vectors. The lepidopteran proboscis is inserted into the flower for nectar and when retracted may become lodged between two stamens and pick up pollen. Pollen is occasionally deposited on the receptive portion of the clavuncle. About 25% of the Lepidoptera sampled carried pollen on the tip of the proboscis, but pollination was infrequent. Observed low rates of fruit production and numerous seeds per fruit are discussed as a consequence of flower structure, the occurrence of vegetative reproduction and Lepidoptera foraging behavior.
10.2307/3670322|Spider populations were studied in a rice field of the Texas A&M University Agricultural Research and Extension Center. Monthly collections were made from 2 March 1973 to 4 November 1973. A total of 752 specimens were collected representing 25 genera and 44 species from 10 families. Number of species collected each month varied from 8 to 19. Monthly and total species diversity was calculated using the formula <tex-math>$\text{H}^{\prime}=-\text{p}_{\text{i}}\ \text{log}_{\text{b}}\ \text{p}_{\text{i}}\approx \text{c}/\text{N}\ (\text{N}\ \text{log}_{10}\ \text{N}-\Sigma \ \text{n}_{\text{i}}\ \text{log}_{10}\ \text{n}_{\text{i}})$</tex-math> derived from information theory. Monthly diversity ranged from 1.495 in October to 3.774 in November. Total diversity for the study was 2.472.
10.2307/3670323|The basic ecological and behavioral events fundamental to the existence of Cysteodemus armatus LeConte are revealed. This blister beetle, characterized by its inflated elytra, is encountered from April to June along the Colorado River basin and adjacent drainages. Beetles mate and feed on succulent vegetation during the day, and actually remain arborial at night. Courtship is relatively uncomplicated for a meloid, and oviposition occurs in sandy burrows constructed by females. Emergent parasitoid triungulins emigrate to potential hosts, with the aid of the incessant desert wind.
10.2307/3670324|Vegetation patterns were studied over an altitudinal gradient in the Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. The sequence of dominant species occurring from low elevation (1675 m) to high elevation (2750 m) was: Quercus emoryi, Juniperus deppeana, Quercus hypoleucoides, Pinus arizonica, and Pseudotsuga menziesii. With the exception of Pseudotsuga menziesii, all the above species had a unimodal distribution of canopy cover with respect to elevation change. Pseudotsuga menziesii, on the other hand, had a bimodal distribution of canopy cover which resulted from disturbance by fire. Communities dominated by Quercus gambelii occurred between modes in the Pseudotsuga menziesii distribution. Species diversity of the vegetative communities was also observed over the gradient. Among stands approaching climax a trend for decreasing diversity with increasing elevation was apparent. The presence of seral communities on the gradient also allowed some inference to be made regarding succession and species diversity. These inferences support the hypothesis that diversity first increases through the successional sequence and then shows some decrease as climax is closely approached.
10.2307/3670325|Parasites were used as biological tags in relation to the taxonomy of the two sympatric forms of stonerollers (Campostoma anomalum pullum and C. oligolepis) in the White River, Arkansas. Nine parasite species were found. Only Neascus of Crassiphiala bulboglossa had a life cycle and intensity of infection appropriate for use as a biological tag. Crassiphiala bulboglossa was significantly more abundant in C. oligolepis than C. a. pullum, suggesting that the two stone-roller forms are distinct species.
10.2307/3670326|A large population of Eiseniella tetraedra, a lumbricid earthworm, was located in a rubble riffle in a Colorado mountain river, where it comprised an important part of the benthic fauna. With the exception of low mid-winter values, the standing crop exhibited a general increase following spring runoff, reaching a maximum of 291 individuals and 17.2 g/m<sup>2</sup> in April of the following year. The worms were eliminated by a severe flood in May and had not completely recolonized the riffle nearly one year later. An exchange mechanism apparently exists between the riffle and the stream banks, with the riffle serving as a refuge in cold weather and the banks acting as a population reservoir. There is evidence that smooth current, relatively constant flow, and higher than normal winter water temperatures account for the presence of this lumbricid earthworm in a mountain stream habitat.
10.2307/3670327|Louisiana cotton mice, Peromyscus gossypinus, were examined for individual, secondary sexual, and geographic variation. Characters which distinguish this species from P. leucopus are reported. Northwestern Louisiana P. gossypinus showed affinities with eastern Texas, Arkansas, and northern Alabama specimens currently referred to as P. g. megacephalus. Southeastern Louisiana P. gossypinus showed affinities with eastern Georgia specimens recognized as P. g. gossypinus. Intergradation between these two races occurs throughout the floodplains of the Mississippi River in Louisiana.
10.2307/3670328|Marked ornate box turtles (Terrapene ornata) were studied on a 4.05 ha tract through 5 seasons and on approximately .93 ha through an additional 17 seasons. Densities ranged from .65 to .89 adults per ha. A female marked as a juvenile reached sexual maturity at age 8 and continued to grow to age 15. Males matured more rapidly than females; a male was presumably mature sexually at age 7. There was only partial concordance between ages estimated from growth rings on scutes and by extrapolation from growth curves. The oldest turtle was estimated to be 32 years of age. Virtually complete turnover of the population is indicated within 32 years. Cars were a common cause of mortality. The activity season spans a little more than 8 months. Mating behavior occurs through much of the activity season. Home ranges of males averaged 105 m in diameter, those of females 94 m. These turtles are omnivorous. Free water was obtained by visits to a pond. The results generally agree with those from a study of the same species in Kansas. Main disagreement is in estimates of growth rates and age of maturity.
10.2307/3670329|Chromosome spreads from a total of 68 individuals representing populations at four localities within the range of Thomomys talpoides agrestis in southern Colorado were studied. The diploid chromosome number was found to vary from 48 to 51. This variation in chromosome number is based on Robertsonian relations. One population is characterized by individuals with either 48, 49 or 50 chromosomes. Analysis of data from 50 individuals from this population indicates that the frequencies of chromosome numbers differ in males and females. Females with 49 and 50 chromosomes were shown to occur more frequently than expected while those with 48 chromosomes occurred less frequently. Superimposed on this pattern of intrapopulation variation is a regional trend of increase in chromosome numbers from north to south.
10.2307/3670330|Tabanus morbosus Stone occurs in Arizona and Mexico, but is collected infrequently. It is found in mountain canyons with permanent streams and associated deciduous, riparian woodland. Larvae occur in moist, loamy soil along stream margins; pupae occur in drier soil from 0.3 to 1.8 m from stream margins. Adult habits are unknown except for one human biting record. It has a 2 year life cycle in Arizona; eggs are laid in July and August, larvae develop for about 2 years. Mature larvae pupate in June; adults emerge in late June and early July. This species probably originated in Central America, moving northward into Arizona when conditions were cooler and moister than now. The male of T. morbosus is described for the first time and relation of this species to Tabanus ebeneus from Central America is discussed.
10.2307/3669949|Two new radiate species of Flourensia (F. pulcherrima and F. monticola) are described from north-central Mexico. In connection with a forthcoming monograph of the genus Flourensia (Dillon 1976) I describe here two new species, Flourensia pulcherrima and F. monticola, both from the Chihuahuan Desert region of north-central Mexico. Both taxa are unique among the North American members of Flourensia in being rather robust, basally branched, glutinous shrubs with their leaves crowded toward the ends of branchlets, and possessing large ligules. They both seem related to F. resinosa, found in the Valley of Mezquital in the state of Hidalgo, Mexico; however, the latter taxon can be distinguished easily by its smaller leaves and floral parts.
10.2307/3669950|Largemouth bass and bluegills were studied during their first year of life to determine the significance of selected ecological factors related to their wellbeing. Factors selected included habitat requirements, food habits, and growth rates of juvenile fish. Some pre-juvenile fish data were collected on the bottom types of spawning area and during spawning periods. An evaluation of the environmental conditions in the lakes is presented.
10.2307/3669951|Natural hybrids of a previously unreported darter combination, Etheostoma gracile  Percina maculata, and previously reported combinations, Percina caprodes  Percina maculata and Percina phoxocephala  Percina maculate are described and figured.
10.2307/3669952|A study of the effects of floods on Thomomys bottae in Limpia Canyon of the Davis Mountains, Texas, was conducted between May 1971 and August 1973. Observations of floods and multiple trapping of individual pocket gophers in and near the flood zone revealed that most individuals of T. bottae were able to survive the effects of floods.
10.2307/3669953|Biomass allocated to reproductive structures in Yucca elata was compared to net leaf growth over a three year period (1971-1973) on two sites in southern New Mexico. Reproductive effort in Y. eleta is dependent on the pattern of precipitational inputs, with significant inputs in the spring and previous winter having the greatest effect. Vegetative growth is curtailed during periods of reproductive growth, probably due to the large amount of energy allocated to reproductive structures. Thus, intervening periods of good vegetative growth may be necessary before a high energy cost inflorescence stalk can be produced. Cattle were found to have a major grazing impact on inflorescence stalks of smaller plants.
10.2307/3669954|Body composition, energy content, basic weight, and lipid cycles were determined for populations of the plains pocket gopher (Geomys bursarius) and the yellow-faced pocket gopher (Pappogeomys castanops) in Kansas. Lipid content calculated as a percentage of dry body weight varied from 11.35 to 32.20% in G. bursarius and from 14.61 to 30.04% in P. castanops. Seasonal means for energy content ranged from 1.29 to 1.57 kcal/g live weight for G. bursarius and from 1.38 to 1.62 kcal/g for P. castanops. Per cent ash and water varied from 17.55 to 18.64 and from 67.13 to 72.59, respectively. In both males and females of G. bursarius, basic weight increased from autumn until winter, whereas in males of P. castanops basic weight decreased from summer until winter but in females basic weight decreased only from autumn until winter. Values for per cent lipids dry body weight, per cent lipids live body weight, and kilocalories per gram biomass were significantly lower for subadult P. castanops than adult P. castanops during the summer but per cent water was significantly higher. Seasonal lipid cycles were similar in the two species, with the low in early or middle summer and the high in late winter or early spring. It is postulated that lipid cycles of pocket gophers are the result of energetically expensive activities associated with breeding and burrowing.
10.2307/3669955|A revised list of 24 species and 11 genera of jumping spiders from Yuma Country, Arizona, is presented. The list contains the following sepcies: Sarinda cutleri, Peckhamia americana, Thiodina sp., Pellenes (Habronattus) arizonensis, P. (H.) brunneus, P. (H.) clypeatus, P. (H.) coecatus, P. (H.) hallani, P. (H.) hirsutus, P. (H.) signatus, P. (H.) tarsalis, P. (H.) tranquillus, Sassacus papenhoei, Pseudicius sp., Metaphidippus manni, M. vitis, Phidippus apacheanus, P. coccineus, P. workmani, Salticus palpalis, Metacyrba arizonensis, M. californica, M. taeniola and Marpissa robusta.
10.2307/3669956|Experimental reduction of the density in the population of the lizard Urosaurus ornatus was utilized to simulate increased mortality in a variable environment. Adult survivorship was not altered when compared to a control population. Hatchling survivorship was significantly increased in the experimental population. These results suggest that natural selection for such life history characteristics as early maturity and rapid growth operates at a demographic level consistent with the adaptive strategy of haste in this relatively r-selected species.
10.2307/3669957|Coat color variation was studied in museum specimens and in natural populations of Abert's squirrel (Sciurus aberti) in Colorado. The phaneromorphism was manifest in two phases, previously described as normal wild type gray (agouti) and classical melanism (nonagouti). The polymorphism was limited to the subspecies (S. a. ferreus) of the north central portion of the state. In the Rocky Mountain Front Range ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests, the frequency of nonagouti morphs was 67.5  6.5% and differed from that observed in the 40,000 acre Black Forest, where nearly all squirrels were nonagouti (79/80). The polymorphism seems a balanced one with frequencies of morphs having been generally stable since the turn of the century. The frequency of the morphs did not obviously vary with elevation, temperature, humidity, evaporation and freeze data.
10.2307/3669958|Temperature selection and shelter utilization of the crayfish, Orconectes causeyi Jester, were assessed. The crafish exhibited sensitivity to an array of temperatures. This sensitivity established a thermal selection index (14-29 C). Thermal acclimation influenced significantly the initial movements of the crayfish, although this effect subsided after 20 min in the thermal gradient. This species also responded positively to shelter configurations, but only within optimum thermal areas.
10.2307/3669959|Two populations of the mushroom Psilocybe cubensis (Earle) Singer were studied. The Houston, Texas, type completed its life cycle about seven weeks before the Palenque, Chiapas type from Mexico in vitro. There were reports and observations of toxic reactions from the Texas type. There were no reports of toxic reactions from the Chiapas type although P. cubensis from Oaxaca has been previously reported slightly toxic.
10.2307/3669712|Long-term chart quadrat records from the Jornada Experimental Range in south-central New Mexico were photographed, the negatives analyzed with a flying-spot scanner, and the information converted for computer analyses. Some 35 quadrats with data from about 30 to 50 years duration were used giving records on the life-span of 12,437 perennial grass plants of seven species. Maximum life spans varied from 28 years for Bouteloua eripoda to only 7 years for Hilaria mutica. Mean life span for plants living at least 1 year varied from 3.8 to 3.0 years for these species. Average age-specific survival rates for seven perennial grasses increased from 0.39 at age 1 up to a maximum of 0.68 at age 7 and down to 0.48 at age 12. The level of grazing over the past years had little effect on plant survival, but cattle movement and trampling caused the death of some newly established grasses. A water-budget model produced results that could be readily interpreted in understanding plant survival. The relationship between the number of days of effective moisture in a given time period and the age-specific survival rates for each age class was pronounced. The period between the second and fourth age classes was most critical as regards availability of water. For newly established plants with shallow root systems, the precipitation of the immediate growing season was more important than precipitation for longer antecedent intervals.
10.2307/3669713|Cliff swallows and their colonial nesting habitats in northwestern Texas were examined for acarines. Nineteen species of acarines were found to be associated with cliff swallows. Several mites found in association with swallow colonies were ectoparasitic on other vertebrate nest inhabitants, notably bats. One genus new to North America was found.
10.2307/3669714|In 1973, the reproductive season of Urosaurus ornatus near Animas, New Mexico, lasted from early June through late August. Males were reproductively active throughout the season. Females first reproduced at a snout-vent length of 42 mm. About 90% of the females in this population produced 2 clutches. Clutch sizes averaged 10.9 eggs for the first clutch and 7.5 eggs for the second. Fat body cyling was important during reproduction, particularly in females.
10.2307/3669715|Two species of Euschoengastia described are: E. fronterizae, new species, from Sierra Fronteriza Range, 40 km SE Boquillas del Carmen, Coahuila, Mexico, off Peromyscus difficilis and, E. chisosensis, new species, from Pine Canyon, Big Bend National Park, Brewster Country, Texas, off Peromyscus pectoralis.
10.2307/3669716|The complete floras of three Chihuahuan desert plant communities were surveyed to determine the relative numbers of species that possess either the C<sub>3</sub> C<sub>4</sub> or CAM carbon reduction pathway. There were more C<sub>3</sub> species in all three communities. Spring-flowering species were predominantly C<sub>3</sub> and CAM; C<sub>4</sub> species most commonly flowered in the summer. Plant standing crop data were used as an indication of the contribution of each pathway to the primary production of the communities. In the most geographically widespread of the three communities, an alluvial plain, CAM plants contributed 48% of the total biomass while only representing 10% of the possible species present. Less than 1% of the biomass was contributed by C<sub>4</sub> species although they comprised 24% of the possible species present. The C<sub>4</sub> pathway did make a substantial standing crop contribution in a very localized community, an ephemeral desert lake bottom, where one C<sub>4</sub> grass species accounted for 90% of the biomass present.
10.2307/3669717|Fat content of migratory Tadarida brasiliensis was determined during the spring, summer and fall of 1972 in the Verde Valley of Arizona. Fat indices were highest in March arrivals, generally declined throughout the summer, and were lowest in September. In both 1972 and 1973 bats had arrived at the study area by mid-March. In 1971 bats were last noted at the area in mid-October while in 1972 they had disappeared by late September. On the basis of physiological calculations it is estimated that bats collected in March 1972 possessed sufficient fat reserves to carry them a mean distance of 716 km north of the study area while September bats had only enough reserves to fly 386 km southward, about 160 km short of the nearest known Sonora wintering locality. It is suggested that in spring the bats may have a more rigidly timed migration and so put on excess fat to counter an uncertain environment to the north. The fall migration may be triggered by more unpredictable events, such as the passage of cold fronts, and less fat reserves may be required for movements into more favorable southern locales.
10.2307/3669718|Studies on helminths of discreet digestive tract segments of Dipodomys ordii in western Texas, 1966-1967, revealed they were parasitized by two nematodes (Mastophorus muris-stomach; Heteromyoxyuris deserti-caecum) and one cestode (Raillietina sp.-small intestine). Consideration of changes in host population in correlation with parasitism indicated that pinworm infections were related to reproduction. Tapeworm infections were seasonal and related to activity of the proposed intermediate ant host and change in diet. Parasite infections were not subject to changes in reproductive hormone levels. Heavy cestode infections were considered responsible for weight loss in the host.
10.2307/3669719|Asiopsocus Gnther contains two species: A. mongolicus Gnther from Mongolia and A. sonorensis n. sp. from northern Sonora, Mexico. The latter species differs from the former in smaller size and several morphological features. Asiopsocus appears to be most closely related to Notiopsocus Banks, and we propose a new family Asiopsocidae, for these two genera. Asiopsocidae belongs to Group Caecilietae in the Pearman-Badonnel classification but stands apart from all other known Caecilietae. On that account we propose two superfamilies within Caecilietae: Asiopsocoidea for Asiopsocidae and Caecilioidea for the other families of the group.
10.2307/3669720|The snowy plover, Charadrius alexandrinus, inhabits hot, windy salt flats in northwestern Oklahoma. Evaporation is high, vegetation is lacking, and the salinity of the standing water is beyond the bird's tolerance. The plovers survive by obtaining non-saline water through their insectivorous diet, restricting activities to areas near water, and standing in the water when ambient temperatures are high.
10.2307/3669721|A variety of large study and treatment sites in shortgrass prairie were sampled for vegetation characteristics in June, 1971. Six plant communities are described, five on upland topography where Ascalon soils prevail. The most widespread of these communities is the Bouteloua gracilis-Carex heliophila community. Vegetation transects representative of this community were found in nearly all of the upland study and treatment areas. The treatments consisted of three grazing intensities, water and nitrogen stresses, insecticide applications, and several exclosures and controls. Information analysis showed that several of the more important and widespread communities could be subdivided into homogeneous vegetation groups. The pattern or sequence of these groups along transects in each of the treatments reveals a coarse-grained, patchy vegetation that appears little affected by grazing treatments. Immediate effects of the stress and insecticide treatments upon vegetation composition are also of little consequence except for certain annual plants.
10.2307/3669722|Caloric equivalents are cited for eight vegetative and reproductive tissue types of Nuphar polysepalum; leaf blade tissue was highest (4499 cal/g ash-free dry weight) and rhizome tissue lowest (3976 cal/g ash-free dry weight). In addition, the concentration of Fe, Mn, Cu, and Zn was determined for each tissue type; leaf blade tissue was consistently highest for each micronutrient while seed tissue was consistently lowest. N. polysepalum is nearly always restricted to Colorado semidrainage mountain lakes; lakes whose waters have consistently high levels of total Fe, NO<sub>3</sub>-N, and humic acid (color).
10.2307/3669723|Seed and parent-plant distributions in space of presumably colonizing chaparral herbs, Calochortus spp., were found to be indistinguishable. This seed population had probably only been thrown from the capsules. Experiments show substantial dispersal is possible in rainwash. Transport would be greatest in areas with minimal surface vegetation and litter; the mechanics of colonization correspond to the post-fire opportunities when reproduction, establishment and growth are also possible. Significant changes in spatial representation with small changes (1 dm) in sample position can occur depending on sampling intensity.
10.2307/3669724|Several investigators, including the author, have demonstrated a correlation between the abundance of Opuntia and the abundance of Neotoma. This study tests the hypothesis that the correlation results from the use of Opuntia as a water resource in one Neotoma population in southern Arizona. An estimate of annual water production in two species of Opuntia was compared with an estimate of annual water consumption in Neotoma and the results indicated water to be a limiting factor for the Neotoma in the area studied.
30054023|Before 1920, native populations of brown pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis carolinensis) were estimated at 50,000 to 85,000 birds in Louisiana and 5,000 in Texas. By 1958, brown pelicans had vanished from two wintering areas in each state, and wintering and breeding birds disappeared from additional areas between 1959 and 1961. By 1963, the disappearance of the brown pelican from Louisiana was complete, and in Texas only about 100 birds were observed annually. Mortality before 1939, particularly in Texas, was attributed mostly to hunters and fishermen. Losses in both states were attributed to hurricanes, disease, and extended periods of freezing weather. Pesticides may also have contributed significantly. Widespread endrin-caused fish mortality was documented between 1958 and 1964 in Louisiana. Pelicans undoubtedly were exposed to endrine through eating the fish. Significant levels of DDE were found in Texas fishes in the late 1960's. DDE residues in pelican eggs were high enough to be responsible for nesting failure. Shell thinning averaged 10% in Texas pelican eggs collected in 1970, 1972, and 1974, but in earlier years greater thinning was associated with the collapse and loss of eggs. Poor reproductive success during recent years was believed due to (1) failure of many adult pelicans to nest and (2) a high rate of nestling mortality in the few pairs that did nest and hatch young. The remnant population of brown pelicans on the Texas Coast will disappear unless reproductive success improves, because recruitment is presently insufficient to offset mortality.
30054024|Chromosome counts for over 100 plants of Cevallia sinuata (Loasaceae) from 82 localities in the Chihuahuan Desert region revealed the existence of two cytotypes; n = 7 II and n = 13 II. The former count is previously unreported for Cevallia and for Loasaceae. No taxonomic status is given the cytotypes which could not be distinguished exo-morphologically or ecologically, although minor differences are noted in anther size and pollen sculpturing. It is suggested that the more widespread n = 13 cytotype arose from x = 7 as a result of segmental alloploidy or autoploidy.
30054025|Predator response postures (PRP's) are described for three crayfish species-Procambarus (Girardiella) gracilis, P. (G.) simulans simulans, and P. (Ortmannicus) acutus acutus. Comparisons are made and conclusions drawn as to the function, survival importance, and possible evolutionary significance of these behavioral patterns in crayfish. Adaptation to a terrestrial existence appears to have effected changes from the generalized PRP as displayed by P. s. simulans and P. a. acutus. P. gracilis shows this specialization.
30054026|An analysis of 125 bobcat (Lynx rufus) stomachs collected from January through June in 1971 and 1972 revealed marked differences in food habits between the two years. In 1971 the total diet was composed of 21 different species, over 80% of which consisted of cotton rat (Sigmodon hispidus), white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), and cottontail rabbit (Sylvilagus floridanus). In 1972 only six different species were recorded, and over 96% of the diet was comprised of cotton rats and cottontails. Both of these species were present in very low numbers in 1971, but both underwent an apparent dramatic population increase in 1972. All other prey species for which we have availability data also either increased or remained approximately stable in 1972, but the bobcats took primarily cotton rats and cottontails to the almost total exclusion of all else. Based on Chi-square tests comparing availability to selectivity, the cotton rat was the only species taken in direct proportion to its occurrence. All other species except bobwhite quail (Colinus virginianus) and wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo) were taken disproportionately less than their abundance would indicate.
30054027|Habit descriptions and additional ecological data are given for four benthic marine algae found on the south Texas coast. Spatoglossum schroederi is reported for the first time from South Padre Island. The collections represent the northernmost range of each genus in the western Gulf of Mexico.
30054028|Spatial variation in concentration and in species diversity of pelagic net zooplankton was measured among sites at four stations in Eufaula Lake, Oklahoma. Twenty-three species were obtained with nine species composing approximately 99% of the total number of individuals counted. The coefficients of variation for d were considerably less than the coefficients for estimates of concentration. Although collections were limited to one lake, the data suggest that estimates of concentration should involve establishing multiple sites at a sampling station; however, a single site may be sufficient when calculating species diversity, d.
30054029|A definite preference by white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) for sunflower seeds over corn was demonstrated. Search experiments were conducted by burying the seeds in sand at various densities and ratios. Results of these experiments showed the mice change their diet in response to relative availability of the two food items. These results were related to experimental results from other studies and current models of foraging strategy, showing the models have qualitative predictive value.
30054030|To provide data necessary for determining relationships between the African Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis ibis) and its environment, woody vegetation associated with an inland heronry in east Texas was analyzed. A two-axis ordination of fifteen wooded communities revealed a large, diversified, terrestrial cluster and a less diverse swamp cluster. Vegetation of the nesting areas of the swamp was comprised mainly of clumps of Cephalanthus ocsidentalis and Planera aquatica. Deeper water communities were ,dominated by Nyssa aquatica while shallow water communities primarily supported Frazinus pensylvanica and Cephalanthus occidentalis. Terrestrial forests peripheral to nesting areas consisted chiefly of Quercus nigra, Ulmus crassifolia, Fraxinus pensylvanica, Celtis laevigata and Crataegus spathulata. A forested peninsula was dominated by the shrub Callicarpa americana and an overstory of Quercus falcata, Q. Phellos, Q. nigra and Liquidambar Styraciflua. The principal species of a forested island were Quercus Phellos, Ulmus crassifolia and Crataegus spp.
30054031|Food habits and feeding behavior of the endangered fountain darter, Etheostoma fonticola was studied in the San Marcos River, Texas. This species was found to be selective in how and what it eats. The food habits varied with seasons and size of fish and the species fed primarily during daylight.
30054032|The food habits of the spotted bass, Micropterus punctulatus, and largemouth bass, M. salmoides, found sympatrically in selected south central Oklahoma streams were studied. A total of 260 fishes was collected. The stomachs of 106 spotted bass and 100 largemouth bass contained food. Crayfish was the most important food organism for spotted bass, both in total volume and total frequency. Fishes were the second most important item. Largemouth bass fed primarily on fishes, both in total volume and total frequency. The second most important item was crayfish.
30054033|Bufo boreas and Hyla regilla in two localities in southern California had very similar incidences and intensities of infection with helminth parasites. The nematodes Oswaldocruzia, Cosmocercoides, and Rhabdias were found, in addition to the cestode Distoichometra and the trematode Glypthelmins. Oswaldocruzia is reported here for the first time in H. regilla, and Distoichometra was found for the first time in B. boreas. Rhabdias, Cosmocercoides, and Distoichometra are reported here for the first time in California populations of H. regilla. Statistical analyses of the infections indicate that positive correlations exist between incidence and/or intensity of infection and host species, locality, and sex and size of the host.
30054034|The frequency of occurrence of clusters of limber pine trees was studied. Results indicated the majority of seedlings originated in clusters. A hypothesis that clusters of seedlings are the result of seed caching by small animals is proposed.
30054035|Five species of lizards have been found in two Pleistocene cave deposits from New Mexico. Species composition indicates altitudinal fluctuation of vegetation zones in the Guadalupe Mountains due to climatic changes during the late Wisconsin.
30054036|Species of Ribes native to New Mexico were studied chemotaxonomically on the basis of flavonoid variability and content. The phenolic compounds, used as indicators of variability in this study, were extracted from the plant material by a soxhlet extraction apparatus. Methanolic extracts of both fresh and preserved leaves were examined using thin-layer chromatography. The results supported the current subgeneric breakdown of Ribes into Ribesia and Grossularia. Ribesia contains between two and four anthocyanins, while Grossularia contains no detectable anthrocyanins. Evidence presented indicates that R. aureum (Ribesia) and R. inerme (Grossularia) are misplaced subgenerically. Biochemically, at least, R. aureum should be placed in Grossularia and R. inerme in Ribesia. Chemotaxonomically, R. cereum and R. inebrians appear to be but one species. The same is true of R. aureum and R. odoratum.
30054037|Thomomys bottae were better swimmers than either Pappogeomys castanops or Geomys bursarius. Superiority in the water may reflect size differences, and actual behavioral adaptation to a mountain habitat subject to flooding every spring.
30054038|Gaillardia coahuilensis, a new species from northcentral Mexico and adjacent Texas, is described. In habital features it superficially resembles G. pulchella Fouq. but in floral features it appears closest to the allopatric, more montane, G. mexicana Gray.
10.2307/3670460|Four species of voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus, M. mexicanus, M. montanus and M. ochrogaster) are reported from Late Pleistocene and Recent cave deposits in southcentral and southwestern New Mexico. Identification of isolated molars was achieved by multivariate statistics. Aspects of paleoecology for each locality are given and late pluvial to Recent conditions of southern New Mexico are discussed.
10.2307/3670461|Asiopsocus sonorensis Mockford and Garcia Aldrete (in press) was taken in Arizona, not far from the Sonoran type locality. The hitherto unknown female is essentially apterous, as in A. mongolicus Gnther, but differs from the latter species in smaller size and in several morphological details. Nymphs resemble the female in form and color. Male nymphs acquire wing pads in an early instar. Eggs are laid singly or in pairs on bark. Their surface is reticulate and partly covered with granular material. Courtship and copulation involve the male running over the female from behind and pushing under her, abdomen first, from in front. Copulation lasted only 20 seconds in the single observation made. This pattern of courtship and copulation is seen in several other genera of Psocomorpha.
10.2307/3670462|Vegetation patterns were studied in relation to topography to ascertain the degree of phytosociological change and to provide an inventory of the vegetation of South Padre Island. Six major terrestrial topographic zones were recognized: (1) Foreshore, (2) Backshore, (3) Primary dunes, (4) Secondary dunes and vegetated flats, (5) Tidal flats, and (6) Washovers. The flora includes at least 204 species of angiosperms representing 47 families. Five families, Compositae (26), Cyperaceae (10), Gramineae (46), Leguminosae (24), and Scrophulariaceae (8), account for 55.9% of the species diversity. The vegetation occurs in distinct zones that correspond closely to topographic facets. Comparison of three trans-island transects showed that Schizachyrium scroparium was dominant on all three transects and the only important species which occurred on all three transects. Real estate "developments" have produced major changes and development is continuing. Thus, the natural habitat of South Padre Island may rapidily disappear.
10.2307/3670463|Twenty-one taxa and 130 identifiable specimens of reptiles and small mammals preserved in late Pleistocene packrat middens from the lower Grand Canyon of Arizona were identified. Samples range in age from 8540  180 to 16,330  270 radiocarbon years. Plant macrofossils of approximately 75 species are associated with the fauna. The plants are a mixture of present desert forms and woodland species (Juniperus sp., Fraxinus anomala, Ribes montigenum) now restricted to higher elevations on the rims of the Grand Canyon. The fauna also represents a mixture of present desert species (Gopherus agassizi, Sauromalus obesus, Coleonyx variegatus) and higher woodland species (Sceloporus undulatus or occidental is Neotoma mexicana, Erethizon dorsatum, Marmota flaviventris). Mixed biotic communities in the Pleistocene may reflect a more moderate climate which had mild winters, cool summers, and slightly increased winter rainfall.
10.2307/3670464|A new subspecies of Eutamias dorsalis is formally described. This subspecies apparently is confined to coastal Sonora north of Guaymas. Its head and body length is less than that of E. d. dorsalis, and it has a much smaller and narrower skull, a proportionately broader rostrum, and longer ossa genitalia.
10.2307/3670465|Dry weight and lean dry concentrations of 15 elements were determined for 16 species of rodents from California and Nevada. Concentration data were subjected to analysis of variance to test for species, locality and sex effects. Species and locality effects on dry weight concentration were found for all 15 elements; however, most species effects disappeared when comparisons were made among congeneric species. Sex effects on dry weight concentration were negligible. It was concluded that generic, mean concentrations (i.e., average concentrations obtained by pooling data from congeneric species) should provide satisfactory estimates of the concentrations of 12 of the 15 elements studied. Errors in estimates of elemental standing crop resulting from use of tabular concentration data would probably be small for most elements relative to errors caused by lack of precision of censusing techniques in determining density.
10.2307/3670466|Among environmental parameters, tested for tolerance of the red shiner, the species survived hydrogen ion concentrations between 5-10 pH units, salinity of 10 ppt, dissolved oxygen values of 1.50 ppm, and thermal shocks of T+10 to T-21C. Tolerance of the red shiner to any cne or a combination of the above mentioned parameters, in addition to its plasticity of feeding habits and reproductive capability, undoubtedly relate to the success and widespread distribution of this notropid within plains streams.
10.2307/3670467|Differences exist among fairy shrimps in the size of the eggs they develop. Large eggs that hatch into big larvae probably evolved in the relatively predictable melt-pond environment as a result of selection against small size by invertebrate predators. High density-independent mortality occurring in the absence of predation on larval stages seems to have selected for the production of increased clutch size at the expense of egg volume in the unpredictable rain-pond habitat. Differences in resource availability between the two habitats along with r- and K-selection may have aided in the evolution of ecologically relevant egg sizes.
10.2307/3670468|Samples of fishes containing representatives of the southern brook lamprey were collected quarterly from five stream stations in the Mill Creek drainage, northeast Newton County, Texas using a back-pack shocking device. Southern brook lampreys were more abundant in tributaries than in the mainstream and were observed to prefer slack water areas with decomposing materials. They utilized plankton and detritus as food. They were in better condition in fall than in summer, and also heavier at a given length during spring than winter. These differences appeared related to quantity and quality of food and probably were also affected by changes related to transformation.
10.2307/3670469|Abedus signoreti vicinus Mayr is elevated to species; A. signoreti sonorensis Menke is regarded as a subspecies of vicinus. Abedus fittkaui De Carlo, 1966, is synonymized with A. dilatatus (Say), 1832. The following previous synonymy is confirmed: A. montandoni De Carlo, 1932 and A. anconai De Carlo, 1938 = A. dilatatus (Say), 1832; A. drakei De Carlo, 1938 and A. stali De Carlo, 1948 = A. herberti herberti Hidalgo, 1935; A. hungerfordi De Carlo, 1932 and A. mayri De Carlo, 1948 = A. indentatus (Haldeman), 1854. The following species are recorded for the first time from the United States (Arizona): A. ovatus Stl, A. parkeri Menke; the ovatus record needs confirmation. The disjunct distribution of Abedus breviceps Stl is analyzed.
10.2307/3669806|The rates and timing of nectar and pollen production in four species of agaves were studied. Two species (Agave palmeri and A. schottii) were found to be primarily nocturnal producers and additionally were shown to secrete relatively unconcentrated nectars. The remaining species (A. toumeyana and A. parviflora) produce nectar and pollen primarily during the daytime. The adaptive significance of these and related variations is discussed.
10.2307/3669807|A new subfamily of quill mites (Acarina: Syringophilidae) is described from a groove-billed ani, Crotophaga sulcirostris, collected in southwest Texas. Species of the Lobatinae subfam. n. are distinguished from all other members of the Syringophilidae by a pair of terminal hysterosomal lobes on adult females, an elongate empodium that is terminally bifurcate, the structure of setae a' and a" and 8-12 teeth on the cheliceral digit of the adult male. Characterization of the Lobatinae is based on the description of Cuculiphilus lobatus gen. n., sp. n.
10.2307/3669808|Reproductive data are presented for a Texas cave population of the poorly known peripheral U. S. species Petrochelidon fulva. Laying began in late April; reproduction ceased in mid-August; most hatches occurred during the fifteenth or sixteenth 24 hr. period following laying; flight potential developed between 20 and 22 days post-hatch; the nestling period was estimated at between 23 and 26 days. Clutch size for initial depositions in a nest averaged 3.87 eggs; for second depositions within a nest, 3.37 eggs. Clutch size, hatch percentage, and nestling survival percentage decreased throughout the season.
10.2307/3669809|Three complete courtship and copulatory sequences were observed in a pair of Mexican milk snakes, Lampropeltis triangulum sinaloae between July, 1974, and March, 1975. The third copulatory sequence was recorded on movie film and videotape for detailed analysis. These snakes show the following three major divisions of courtship and copulatory behavior: tactile-chase, tactile-alignment and intromission and coitus. Although these phases follow a general colubrid pattern, careful analysis has shown specific differences.
10.2307/3669810|Germination of three xerophytic perennials (Agave lecheguilla, A. Parryi, and Fouquieria splendens) was studied under diurnal temperature fluctuations designed to stimulate late summer soil temperatures. Major temperature cycles were 20 C-35 C and 20 C-40 C. All three species germinated well with exposures to 35 C. However, A. lecheguilla was found to be more sensitive, A. Parryi less sensitive, and F. splendens least sensitive to prolonged exposure to 40 C. It is hypothesized that sensitivity to 40 C may explain the lack of common germination of the two Agave species after late summer rains in the Chihuahuan Desert, while F. splendens germinates readily at this time. It is also hypothesized that the high elevation agave, A. Parryi, has not evolved mechanisms limiting germination at 40 C since it inhabits cooler sites.
10.2307/3669811|Study of two naturally occuring populations of the conchostracan Eulimnadia texana Packard indicated the presence of an initial low percentage of males as well as a progressive decrease in their numbers shortly following the attainment of sexual maturity. This phenomenon could account for some previous reports of parthenogenetically reproducing populations as well as the reported presence of female only species of Eulimnadia.
10.2307/3669812|This study documents the timing of seasonal events and associated changes in body weights of Uinta ground squirrels (Spermophilus armatus) at three different altitudes. The investigation provides a field perspective for biologists studying circannual rhythms and torpor of sciurids in the laboratory. The findings suggest that spring arousal from torpor was temporally different from emergence aboveground. Arousal occurred about the same time annually, and it was probably under endogenous control. Within limits, spring temperature determined when the squirrels appeared aboveground. Subsequent events in the squirrels' cycle were timed by the date of spring emergence. The squirrels were active aboveground an average of about 85 days, and season length was independent of altitude. Fat storage was calculated as an average fasting potential of 54 days for adult males and 44 days for adult females.
10.2307/3669813|Two-hundred and nineteen recently germinated jojoba seedlings were located in October and November 1974 and observed monthly for 12 months thereafter. Total seedling survival was 12%. Seedlings in "protected" situation (associated with adult jojoba shrubs, other woody perennials, or rocks) had a significantly higher survival rate (22%), by December 1975, than seedlings growing in exposed sites (6%). Seedling mortality appeared to be related to both climatic (drought and freezing) and biotic (rodent) factors. Periods of vegetative growth and seedling germination were noted.
10.2307/3669814|Studies at the turn of this century show that sand, silt load, and extremely variable flow made the Red River of Texas and Oklahoma unsuitable for most pelecypods. In 1944, Lake Texoma was created forming a 36,000 ha reservoir on the river, and the once sparse fauna is now flourishing. Studies in the late 1940's, mid 1950's, mid 1960's, and 1975-1976 show a gradually increasing density and diversity within the lake, despite a seeming lack of suitable habitats and mass mortalities caused by water level fluctuations. Except for the introduction of the Asiatic clam, Corbicula manilensis, the present species composition of the lake is essentially that which exists in the more productive tributaries to the Red River. Annotations on habitat preferences are given for each of the 15 species and forms, and an attempt has been made to contrast these data with the diverse and often unavailable older literature.
10.2307/3669815|The original list of the fossil mammals from Holloman gravel pit, near Frederick, Oklahoma, published in 1930, included 22 species. Restudy of the specimens, including material unavailable for many years, shows that: Equus littoralis and Odocoileus hemionus were included in the list by accident; the Columbian mammoth teeth probably came from elsewhere; the muskox fossil is lost but is probably Recent Bison; Equus achates Hay and Cook is a synonym of Equus tau Owen; teeth and jaw fragments originally referred to Equus complicatus are referable to E. scotti and E. calobatus; the tooth originally called Equus pacificus is probably E. giganteus; Mammuthus haroldcooki (Hay) and Stegmastodon priestleyi (Hay and Cook) are retained as valid species. The Holloman local fauna is equivalent in age to the Gilliland local fauna of Texas. Both are earliest Irvingtonian in age.
30054797|Microdistributional studies of small mammals were conducted in the Upper Williams Fork Basin of Grand Co., Colorado, at elevations of 8500 to 11,400 ft (2590 to 3475 m) in the summers of 1974 and 1975. Habitat similarity values were subjected to cluster analysis. The analysis suggested that the environmental mosaic in the basin includes three broad "habitat-types" important to small mammals: (1) sagebrush parklands, (2) subaquatic to mesic meadows, thickets, and woodlands, and (3) coniferous forests. Analysis of similarity of habitats between species showed that Microtus montanus had the most distinctive habitat of the species studied. Sorex cinereus and S. vagrans had highly comparable habitats, as did Eutamias minimus and Peromyscus maniculatus, Clethrionomys gapperi and Phenacomys intermedius, and Microtus longicaudus and Zapus princeps.
30054798|Species composition and population size of the phytoplankton of Lynx Lake, Arizona, were investigated from February to September, 1974. Only 28 species of phytoplankton were recorded. The mean phytoplankton standing crop was found to be low (1230 organisms/ml), with a single peak occurring in July. The mean extractable chlorophyll a value was 2.95 mg/m, which confirmed the low phytoplankton standing crop. During the winter, the lake was isothermal; thermal stratification developed in May. Surface water temperatures ranged from 4.5C in February to 220C in July. Summer dissolved oxygen concentrations were less than 1.0 mg/l below the thermocline, although surface waters remained well-oxygenated. The lake is a calcium bicarbonate water with stable concentrations of major cations and anions. The trace elements cadmium, chromium, cobalt, copper, lead and molybdenum were all found to be below 20 g/1 during the study period. Iron, manganese, and zinc, were also present in low concentrations, but showed considerable fluctuation. Levels of the nutrients nitrogen and phosphorus were consistently low except during the late summer months. This study suggests that the low standing crop and limited diversity of the phytoplankton of Lynx Lake is a result of the low nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations and is not due to the toxicity of certain heavy metals.
30054799|Foraging and food habits of nesting Olivaceous Cormorants (Phalacrocorax olivaceus) were studied during 1976. Food samples were gathered from chick regurgitations. Adults flew at least 2 km from the nest site to forage, and delayed their initial return for at least 2.5 hr. Food specimens greater than 70 mm in length accounted for 33.4 percent by weight of the nestlings' diet, but only 3.3 percent by frequency. Whole food was not regurgitated before 1 week of age, whereas those older than 1 week normally regurgitated whole items. Four species of fish accounted for the majority of food specimens gathered.
30054800|Thirteen species and three genera of backswimmers (Notonectidae) are recorded from Arizona. Several species occur in sympatry. This investigation provides distributional and systematic data for the group, including figures illustrating important morphological characteristics.
30054801|Three late Pleistocene packrat middens from Bishop's Cap, Doa Ana County, New Mexico, record a xeric woodland community about 10,500 radiocarbon years ago. A total of 118 species in 35 families of plants are recorded for Bishop's Cap today. The paleocommunity probably represents a terminal Pleistocene period close to the transition to Holocene climates and vegetations. It is correlated with the Wisconsin 2 zone in the Guadalupe Mountains of Texas. The absence of characteristic Chihuahuan Desert plants in the fossil flora suggests that the modem Chihuahuan Desert communities appeared after 10,500 years ago.
30054802|Recent collections have revealed the presence of populations of the fresh-water ancylid snails Ferrissia walkeri and Laevapex fuscus (Pulmonata: Basommatophora) in a small manmade pond in North Central Texas. Laevapex fuscus is known from only 5 other localities in Texas and this report of F. walkeri is the first for the state. A large proportion of adult individuals in the F. walkeri population harbored cercariae of an unidentified trematode while cercariae were never observed in specimens of L. fuscus collected from the same habitat.
30054803|Gambusia affinis and G. geiseri taken from the upper San Marcos River were infected with numerous helminth parasites. G. affinis supported a significantly higher helminth burden and diversity of helminths than did G. geiseri. The overall structure of the helminth communities of the two fishes were found to be characteristically distinct. The differences between the helminth communities of the two hosts were attributed mainly to differences between the size and diet of the fishes and to the spatial niche that each species occupies in the river. The observed differences between the helminth communities of G. affinis and G. geiseri indicate that these two sympatric fishes are very different ecologically.
30054804|The avifauna of a typical oakbrush community in northern Utah was studied to determine species composition, seasonal usage, and seasonal populations. During one year, 67 species of birds were observed on the oakbrush study area; 24 were considered to be breeding species. Highest monthly mean numbers of species and individuals observed were 13.3 in June and 89.8 in November, respectively. Lowest monthly means were 2.5 species in February and 4.3 individuals in January.
30054805|An analysis of the population dynamics of Armadillidium vulgare was made from 44 samples collected from 1966 to 1971 in Denton, Texas. Young, which first entered the population in May, appeared to be approximately 8 mm in length by the following May. Two annual intervals of rapid growth occurred, one from February to April and a second from August to October. Both intervals occurred primarily during periods of increased precipitation and moderate temperatures. Although considerable variation existed in sex ratios, generally a significantly greater number of females occurred immediately before or during the early part of the breeding season; whereas males predominated during the interval following the breeding season. Onset of recruitment varied from year to year, with the major period of parturition occurring from May through August; however, gravid females were observed as early as March and as late as November. Large females bred earlier in the season than smaller individuals. Total number of eggs, embryos, and/or young were directly proportional to total length of females, and the highest average number of eggs and/or young per female occurred from March through June.
10.2307/3670142|One-hundred twenty-eight taxa of phytoplankton and 32 taxa of zooplankton were collected from three stations in the Arkansas River near its confluence with Red Rock Creek. Samples were taken on six dates between April 1975 and January 1976. Maximum numbers of taxa of both groups occurred in late spring. Minimum variety of phytoplankton existed in summer, while both variety and density of zooplankton were extremely low in fall and winter. Density of phytoplankton ranged from 34.2 to 533.1 cells/ml. Density values were low in winter and early spring and reached maximum levels in early fall. Zooplankton density ranged from 0.5 to 129.3 individuals/1 with maximum density occurring in summer. Diversity (d) of phytoplankton in the river was high ranging from 2.3 to 3.8. Values on most dates exceeded three. Diversity of zooplankton was generally low except in late spring. Chlorophyll a ranged from 0.04 to 0.30 mg/m<sup>3</sup>. Highest values were measured in summer, while lowest values occurred in winter and late spring.
10.2307/3670143|Neivamyrmex nyensis, n. sp. (Formicidae: Dorylinae) from 5 miles south and 3 miles east of Beatty, Nye Co., Nevada, U.S.A., 3500 feet, collected 15 May 1970, by G. C. and J. Wheeler is described from the holotype worker. Neivamyrmex nyensis is most similar to N. carettei (Brazil, Argentina); however, the postpetiole of N. nyensis is broader than long while the postpetiole of N. carettei is as long or longer than broad; the anteroventral tooth of the petiole is absent from N. nyensis, but present on N. carettei. The small size (1.7-2.5 mm) may also cause N. nyensis to be confused with N. leonardi, N. moseri or N. pauxillus, but these species have more subquadrate petioles and differently shaped mandibles. The holotype is deposited in the Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History, Los Angeles, Calif., U.S.A.
10.2307/3670144|Various aspects of night roosting behavior were observed for four species of desert bats. Variability in night roost utilization was found for those species for which adequate observations were available. Myotis californicus roosted primarily in desert shrubs or trees, depending on availability. Pipistrellus hesperus utilized rock, rock crevices, and desert shrubs as primary roosting sites, rock being preferred when in close proximity to water. Antrozous pallidus was more flexible in roosting behavior, utilizing small trees, rock crevices, and an abandoned shed. In contrast, Tadarida brasiliensis roosted in a bridge expansion-joint where they were also found during daylight hours. Night roosting for digestion and subsequent weight loss reduces wing loading, thereby allowing considerable energy conservation in further foraging activity or long flights back to day roosts.
10.2307/3670145|The distribution of the goldstripe darter (Etheostoma parvipinne) in Arkansas is presented along with data on habitat, stream associates, and meristic variation of this species within the state. Also included is an analysis of the current status of E. parvipinne in Arkansas.
10.2307/3670146|An aggregate of local populations of the leopard frog, Rana blairi, exists in extreme southeastern Arizona. The populations appear to be geographically isolated from the main body of the species in the central United States. In Arizona, the frog occurs sympatrically with the southern form of leopard frog (an unnamed species of the R. pipiens complex), but natural hybrids have not been identified. Differences in mating vocalizations and partial genetic incompatibility seem to represent the primary form of reproductive isolation, although incomplete differences in breeding period also might function as a minor barrier.
10.2307/3670147|Periphyton was collected from third, fourth, fifth, and sixth order streams in Otter Creek, Oklahoma, during winter, spring, and summer, 1975. Species composition, diversity, ash-free weight and chlorophyll a were analyzed for differences among stream orders. A total of 85 taxa of periphyton were collected. The number of total taxa, number of diatom taxa, and species composition was similar to other studies in the state. The number of taxa other than diatoms was always highest in the third order and tended to increase with order. A large number of pollution-tolerant algae were collected. Trends in species composition, number of taxa, and type of taxa suggested mild nutrient enrichment. Species diversity and equitability were lowest in the third and fourth order and then increased with order. Chlorophyll a and ash-free weight values decreased with increased order. These trends also reflect probable nutrient enrichment which masked physiographic succession.
10.2307/3670148|The possibility that Crotalus atrox and C. scutulatus might hybridize in southeastern Arizona-southwestern New Mexico or in the Big Bend region of Texas was analyzed morphometrically and electrophoretically. Intraspecific variation and interspecific overlap in key morphological characters has led to the incorrect assumption that these species hybridize. Even though they are syntopic primarily in an unstable desert-grassland ecotone where habitat differences are not evident, C. atrox and C. scutulatus are morphologically and biochemically distinct.
10.2307/3670149|A small collection of fossil vertebrates from the Fowkes Formation in Uinta County, Wyoming, includes the primates Notharctus cf. robustior, Omomys carteri, Hemiacodon gracilis, and Uintasorex parvulus. The fauna provides a reliable late Bridgerian age for the enclosing rocks and strengthens the relationship between the Fowkes Formation of the Fossil Basin and the Bridger Formation of the Green River Basin.
10.2307/3670150|The external morphology and internal anatomy of leaflets from four disjunct Sophora taxa were examined in order to establish relationships among extant populations and to determine their relationship with fossil remains presumed to be Sophora. Several leaflets of the fossil material were found with other paleovegetative samples dated at 15,695  230 radiocarbon years ago. These leaflets were compared to samples from four widely disjunct extant taxa of Sophora from the Chihuahuan and Sonoran desert region of the southwestern United States and Mexico. Scanning electron micrographs of surface modifications were used to demonstrate similarities among the taxa in question. Leaflets were cleared and stained in order to examine venation patterns. These data, along with comparative studies of internal structures, clearly identified the fossil material as a Sophora and provided additional evidence indicating a monophyletic origin for all five taxa. Based on this and previous work by the senior author, a proposed phylogenetic sequence originating in the Pliocene is suggested. A putative ancestral type for the complex is also proposed.
10.2307/3670151|Foods of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on the Rolling Plains of north-central Texas were analyzed. Fecal analysis indicated deer were primarily browsers during the winter and spring, when mistletoe (Phoradendron villosum) predominated in the diet, but were primarily grazers during summer and fall. Prickly pear (Opuntia macrorhiza) served as a substitute for mistletoe in brushy areas. Deer consistently selected 10 of 250 available foods, indicating the importance of maintaining preferred foods in habitat manipulations in this region.
10.2307/3670152|Blacktail shiners, Notropis venustus, were collected in Bayou Sara, West Feliciana Parish, Louisiana, every three hours over a 24-hour period on two different days (12-13 April 27-28 June, 1975) to determine feeding chronology and food habits of this species. Peak feeding activity was just prior to sunset. Feeding was sporadic at night, lowest just prior to sunrise, and increased steadily after sunrise. Notropis venustus is predominantly carnivorous. Terrestrial insects were the major food items. Feeding activity appeared to be a function of the availability of food organisms.
10.2307/3670153|An analysis of a videotaped (48 min) interaction between two large adult male Lampropeltis getulus holbrooki shows the characteristics of a combat ritual. Along with almost continuous contact, specific actions include forward jerks, jerk-crawls, body-bridging, lying-on, crawling-over, entwining, hovering, and topping. The sequence of these actions suggests attempts by each male to dominate the other and the ultimate outcome indicates one male as dominant, the other subordinate, the latter showing submissive actions of avoidance, retreat, and negative behavior.
10.2307/3670154|From September, 1973, through October, 1974, 397 fish representing 9 species and 3 families were collected from Eagle Mountain Lake, Tarrant-Wise Counties, Texas. The following fish species were examined: Aplodinotus grunniens, Ictalurus punctatus, Micropterus salmoides, M. punctulatus, Pomoxis annularis, Lepomis gulosus, L. macrochirus, L. megalotis, and L. macrolophus. Thirty-two species of parasites representing 22 families and 26 genera were recovered. Seventy-three percent of the fish examined harbored at least one species of helminth, annelid, mollusk, or crustacean parasite. Parasite loads were light and do not appear to pose a serious threat to the species of fish studied. A comparison of fish collected from heated waters with those taken outside the influence of thermal loading suggests little effect of thermal loading upon incidence of parasitism when fish are permitted free access to both areas.
10.2307/3669976|Population ecology of Roadrunners was studied in 1972 and 1973 at the Rob and Bessie Welder Wildlife Foundation Refuge in the Coastal Bend region of the Gulf coast of Texas. Pairs were the primary social unit, were territorial, and were uniformly dispersed in suitable habitat. Territories occupied dry upland areas with brushy cover and had a mean maximum dimension of 0.7 km. Territories were used year around, but adult pair members would consistantly forage in different areas of the territory while feeding young and also during winter. Population density estimates were 3.1 and 2.5 birds per km<sup>2</sup> for 1972 and 1973, respectively. Minimum estimated adult survival from 1972 to 1973 was 60 percent, but the actual value likely was much higher. Nest site parameters are given and compared with those in the literature. Nest sites were characterized by short grass within 20 m of the nest, and 11 nest sites surveyed in detail were similar with respect to composition and frequencies of woody vegetation within 20 m of the nests. Nest locations were not as expected if solar insolation was an important factor in nestling thermoregulation, although habitat differences may preclude meaningful comparison with Ohmart's (1973) study. Reproductive success was low, averaging 12 and 32 percent for 1972 and 1973, respectively, and was independent with regard to start date and clutch size. Clutch size was highly variable (x = 4.0, n = 17, range 2-7). There was no significant intra- or interseasonal variation in clutch size. Laying intervals varied, the commonest being 2 days. Clutch replacements were frequent due to a high nest predation rate. Two nesting attempts per pair were common; no third attempts were observed. A rough estimate of mean annual fecundity was 8.2 eggs/pair, and the mean number of fledglings was 1.8/pair. Fledgling survival was not determined, but we estimated that 19 percent would be sufficient to maintain a stable population under the conditions observed. Mortality associated with breeding resulted from abandoned eggs, hatching failure, nestlings prematurely leaving nests, and nest predation. The most probable nest predators were snakes. Predation losses were about 70 percent, compared with no predation in Arizona (Ohmart 1973). We believe that nest predation may have been a factor in Roadrunner evolution, contrary to the opinion of Ohmart. Nestling growth was only observed for the earlier stages because of the high nest predation rate, but we conclude that: 1) weight is not a good predictor of age in Roadrunner nestlings if food limitation is a factor; 2) growth form can be equally well represented by either the Gompertz or von Bertalanffy equations, but not the logistic; and 3) growth rates from this study were much higher than those reported for southern Arizona (Ohmart 1973). Roadrunners had variable clutch size and laying intervals, could respond quickly to nest failure, and had variable growth rates in the young, all of which allowed a rapid response to unpredictable environments.
10.2307/3669977|In the Californian representatives of the Subsection Oocarpae (Pinus attenuata, P. muricata and P. radiata), there is variability in several cone characters. The cones range from being thin-scaled and attached to branches at relatively right angles, to having very thick scales and prominent apophyses on one side and attached to branches at acute angles. Thick-scaled cones provide more protection for the seeds from the high temperatures of fires than do thin-scaled cones and may deter attacks from the squirrels Tamiasciurus and Sciurus. These cones carry fewer seeds per given weight of cone which is energetically less efficient for the squirrels to harvest. Squirrels are known to selectively feed on cones carrying more seeds per cone. Thin-scaled cones yield more seeds per given cone weight. This is energetically advantageous to reproductive success but may make them favorite targets for squirrel feeding. Consequently, individuals with thin-scaled cones can only be favored in areas where fires are not too hot and where squirrels are rare or absent. Such conditions seem to be met for pine populations on Santa Cruz, Santa Rosa, Guadalupe and Cedros Islands, and San Vicente and Ensenada, Baja California. It is precisely in these populations where cones with thin scales are most frequent. In areas where fires may be expected to be hotter and squirrels more common, individuals with thick-scaled asymmetric cones predominate.
10.2307/3669978|Temperature relations of Holbrookia m. maculata Girard were studied in eastern New Mexico. The mean (MBT) of 174 cloacal temperatures sampled from March through August was 34.3 C. Basking occurred in lizards having cloacal temperatures of 29 C and below, whereas foraging occurred at temperatures of 30 C to 39 C. Cloacal temperatures were more closely correlated with unshaded air temperatures than with other ambient temperatures studied. A significant (P < .05) shift of MBT occurred between spring (Mar-Apr) and summer (May-Aug). The critical thermal maximum (CTM) was 46.5 C. Differences in thermal behavior are discussed for H. m. maculata and H. m. ruthveni.
10.2307/3669979|This report summarizes the results of a study of algae in five farm ponds in Bryan County, Oklahoma, from September 1973 to October 1974. The work was conducted at the Water Quality Management Laboratory in Durant, Oklahoma. Bacillariophyceae, Chlorophyceae, Charophyceae, Chrysophyceae, Dinophyceae, Euglenophyceae, and Myxophyceae were represented in planktonic and littoral zones of the five farm ponds. The Chlorophyceae were the dominant planktonic algae throughout the year in most ponds. Evidence of phytoplankton stratification was often observed. A measure of diversity indices revealed that pond trophic levels ranged between eutrophic and oligotrophic. Heavy bottom growths of Charophyceae were predominant near pond shorelines along with floating mats of filamentous Chlorophyceae. A diverse community of Bacillario-phyceae were epiphytic on vascular aquatic plants and filamentous algae in the littoral zone of the ponds.
10.2307/3669980|The few extant specimens of the extinct Merriam's elk, Cervus merriami, of Arizona and New Mexico, are compared with specimens of Cervus elaphus of more northern subspecies, and the previously stated but largely undocumented conclusion of conspecificity is supported. Cervus elaphus merriami was a marginally valid subspecies, not a separate species.
10.2307/3669981|The host tree spatial pattern in a southern pine beetle (Dendroctonus frontalis Hopk.) infestation was investigated using the distance to the nearest neighbor and variance-to-mean ratio techniques. The results showed that the number of trees in a sample plot was inversely related to average tree diameter at breast height. The spatial pattern of trees within the infestation was regular. This pattern resulted from intense competition between individual trees.
10.2307/3669982|Trapping was conducted to evaluate the relationship of habitat structure to rodent species diversity on north-facing (Douglasfir forest) and southfacing slopes (ponderosa pine forest) in the Colorado Lower Montane life zone. A total of 376 animals were captured representing five rodent species (Peromyscus maniculatus, Eutamias minimus, Peromyscus difficilis, Microtus longicaudus, and Neotoma mexicana) during the summer of 1975. The ponderosa pine woodlands showed a greater rodent species diversity (RSD = 0.855), plant species diversity (PSD = 3.11), vertical complexity of vegetation (FHD = 1.45), density of rock outcrops (RKD = 22/ha), and habitat patchiness (CV = 118.1) than the Douglasfir florests (RSD = 0.389; PSD = 1.53; FHD = 0.81; RKD = 12/ha; CV = 56.7). Habitat patchiness or spatial heterogeneity was a significant predictor of rodent species diversity (F = 580.4, p < .001). The greater spatial heterogeneity of the ponderosa pine forests seemingly allows greater habitat division and consequently greater species packing.
10.2307/3669983|Thirty-three algae taxa previously unobserved in the State of Oklahoma are reported. This includes the first report of Tetrallantos known to the authors west of the Mississippi. Preserved collections and slides are stored in the University of Oklahoma Bebb Herbarium.
10.2307/3669984|This study demonstrates that three species of kangaroo rats, Dipodomys agilis, D. stephensi, and D. panamintinus, although inhabiting areas of different aridity, show similar capacities to maintain body weight and to concentrate urine under reduced water rations. The data suggest that D. panamintinus, when presented with vegetation, will consume larger amounts than the other two species. Since D. panamintinus occurs in an area of low rainfall and xerophytic vegetation, a possible increased need for water prior to reproduction may necessitate a higher level of consumption of seasonally available succulent vegetation.
10.2307/3669985|The addition of pond water containing large numbers of the cryptomonad, Cyanomonas americana, to a catfish pond resulted in the death of 2,500 catfish within 24 hours. Laboratory experiments showed a decrease in fish mortality with decreasing concentrations of water from the pond with the Cyanomonas bloom.
10.2307/3669986|Estimates of production of white crappie, Pomoxis annularis, were made for Lake Nasworthy, Texas, on the basis of mark and recapture studies undertaken in 1969. Estimated biomass varied seasonally from 16.9 to 59.2 kg/ha. Estimated production of 6.1 kg/ha is in the lower end of the reported range for fish that predominate in temperate zones.
10.2307/3669987|The range of Opuntia imbricata (Haw.) DC., together with data from 250 weather stations, was mapped revealing that the cactus is essentially confined to a region receiving 28 to 48 cm annual precipitation and experiencing mean January temperatures above -1C. The distribution of the cactus was quantitatively mapped for El Paso County, Colorado, the northernmost county of its range. Here the cactus achieves greater densities upon soils of high clay content and upon areas of sloping and concave surface and southern aspect. An analysis of published data from New Mexico reveals a greater abundance of cholla upon fine textured soils in that state as well. Individual plants are dispersed according to a Poisson distribution--at least within quadrats 4 to 100 m<sup>2</sup> in area. Within 25 m<sup>2</sup> quadrats the cactus asociated positively, and significantly, with Sitanion hystrix, Hilaria jamesii, Muhlenbergia torreyi, and Yucca glauca. Negative associations were observed with nine species, most of which are commonly regarded as weeds or indicators of range deterioration. The quadrats were objectively segregated into several groups, and the species composition of each group has been tabulated. The successional status of Opuntia imbricata has not been established, nor has its status as a pasture pest been determined.
10.2307/3669988|The effects of physicochemical conditions on the distribution of benthic macroinvertebrates was studied in Arbuckle Lake from January to November, 1975. Ninety-five taxa were collected during eight sampling times. Numbers of species and diversity tended to decrease with depth. The decrease in species diversity with depth fit a linear model on four sampling periods. Minimum density generally occurred at the middle depths. Density was highest in winter and spring. A number of species were common in the shallow depths, while only a few species such as Aulodrilus pigueti, Chaoborus punctipennis, and Dero digitata were abundant in the deeper areas of the lake. The concentration of dissolved oxygen decreased considerably at all depths between the winter and spring collections and by 9 May temperature and dissolved oxygen were stratified. Oxygen was less than 1 mg/l below 11 m on 22 June and below 2 m on 8 August. Variation in species diversity was significantly correlated with organic content of the sediments on three dates and with sediment pH on two occasions.
10.2307/3669989|In a previous study on growth patterns in Yucca elata on the Jornada Range in southern New Mexico, it was observed that an individual Yucca elata grows in a cyclic pattern with respect to leaf and inflorescence production. Results of this study confirm that observation. A large individual plant does not produce an inflorescence stalk every year in the field, an influence of both climatic patterns and plant age and vigor. The cyclic pattern of growth is due to its ability to store large amounts of energy, which is then depleted during the production of the high energy-cost inflorescence. Because of this, intervening years of strictly vegetative growth are necessary, after which an individual plant will flower again given appropriate environmental conditions. A small, young plant must grow several years before it can reproduce. Other woody monocots in the northern Chihuahuan desert appear to exhibit similar growth patterns as Yucca elata.
10.2307/3669765|White-tailed and black-tailed prairie dog colonies in Wyoming were mapped. In place of excavation, smoke was forced into entrances to determine connections. Maps allowed a plotless analysis of spatial pattern. Black-tailed prairie dog entrances showed a random or regular distribution and white-tailed prairie dogs showed an aggregated entrance pattern. Connections between entrances may be fewer than previously thought. Black-footed ferrets may selectively occupy the most complex and rare burrow systems.
10.2307/3669766|The seed germination responses of three species of Gaillardia (G. pulchella, G. pinnatifida and G. multiceps) were investigated by moistening them with solutions containing various concentrations of calcium sulfate. Results indicated that seed germination of the annual species (G. pulchella) was not appreciably affected by the concentrations of CaSO<sub>4</sub> used in this study; however, the germination responses of the two perennial species (G. pinnatifida and G. multiceps) were markedly affected by the various levels of CaSO<sub>4</sub>. Only the seeds of the gypsum endemic species (G. multiceps) showed increased germinability at higher concentrations of calcium sulfate, and the seeds of this species were also the only disseminules which exhibited a progressive stimulation of germination as the CaSO<sub>4</sub> level was raised.
10.2307/3669767|Male cicadas, Diceroprocta apache (Davis), squawk loudly when probed or restrained. We presented noisy and desonified male cicadas to grasshopper mice, Onychomys torridus (Coues), to evaluate the effect of stress sounds on prey handling ability by this aggressive generalist. Mice erred more frequently, and required more time to capture noisy cicadas than silent ones. This effect was independent of mouse age or maturity, but diminished with experience. Cicadas used in these experiments produced stress sounds of ca. 110 db. These sounds obviously irritated, but did not deter mice from subsequent attacks. "Stress calling" by male cicadas seems to have evolved as an accessory behavior under selection for its slight defensive benefit.
10.2307/3669768|Harvest of mature gulf cordgrass is laborious and accurate topgrowth production estimates require an extremely large number of sampling units. Frequently, autecological studies involving intensive evaluation of individual plant growth necessitates estimating biomass without sacrificing the current topgrowth. A double-sampling technique was devised for estimating above-ground yield with minimal disturbance of gulf cordgrass. Basal diameter, average foliar height with leaves extended, and foliar volume were evaluated as predictors of topgrowth weight of gulf cordgrass plants. The relationship of each independent variable to topgrowth weight was assessed using linear, semi-logarithmic and logarithmic functions. The best predictors of above-ground biomass were basal diameter and foliar volume; and the best data fit based on coefficients of determination (r<sup>2</sup>) and coefficients of variation (C.V.) were obtained from the logarithmic relationship. Above-ground weight was consistently predicted within 20% of the actual mean value at the 95% level of confidence using logarithmic relationships involving basal diameter. About one-tenth as much time is required for this procedure as compared to conventional harvesting methods with considerable cost savings in supplies and labor.
10.2307/3669769|County records for the fire ants, Solenopsis aurea, S. geminata, S. invicta, and S. xyloni, in Texas are reported. S. invicta was first reported in the state in 1953. Its spread in Texas is about 30 miles per year. This phenomenal spread is due to dispersal in nuptial flights and transport by water and man. Competitive displacement of native fire ants by S. invicta has been noted in Texas. The northward expansion of S. invicata will probably be limited by winter kill. It is speculated that S. invicta will eventually spread over the entire state and move southward into Mexico.
10.2307/3669770|The invertebrate benthos of Tornillo Creek was analyzed in terms of standing crop, biomass, and species diversity. Numeric standing crop was highly variable among seasons due to physical factors such as scouring and to biological factors, particularly emergence. The mean standing crop was moderately high compared to other flowing ecosystems. Biomass was variable among seasons also, but an additional contributing factor was major growth in several populations. The biomass was similar to other running waters. Species diversity, using both numbers of individuals and biomass units was moderately high indicating a non-impacted community. Diversity using biomass did not vary as greatly among seasons as diversity using numbers of individuals. There is correlation between the occurrence of certain species of algae and the invertebrate community as indicated by an increase in biomass and species diversity.
10.2307/3669771|Ptomaphagus lincolnensis and Ptomaphagus manzano, small-eyed, flightless, high elevation forest litter species from New Mexican mountains, are discribed as new. Their relation to cave species is possible. High elevation spruce-fir forest of New Mexico harbor a suite of terrestrial litter arthropods "preadapted" for cave colonization. That cave faunas in the southwest (west of the Edwards Plateau of Texas) are comparatively lacking in troglobites (obligate cavernicoles) must thus be due to environmental dryness, and not to a lack of ancestral species with cave colonizing potential and ability.
10.2307/3669772|The patterns of leaf and fruit production of desert willow, Chilopsis linearis (Cav.) Sweet, in relation to temperature and precipitation patterns in the Chihuahuan Desert of southern New Mexico were examined by harvesting shoot samples monthly during four growing seasons. On a site with 1.1 individuals per hectare, leaf production was about 5 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> and fruit production was about 1 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> in two years with dry springs and moist summers. In a year with a moist spring and a moist summer, leaf and fruit production was doubled. This high rate of production in the field during favorable periods supports previous laboratory studies that Chilipsis has a high acclimation potential under cool to moderate temperatures. However, in a year with a hot, dry spring and summer Chilopsis was adversely affected. This also supports previous studies that the net photosynthesis rate of Chilopsis was greatly reduced under high preconditioning temperatures and rapidly decreased as water potentials dropped below - 10 bars.
10.2307/3669773|Allocation of energy available from secondary production to somatic growth (Pg) and gamete production (Pr) was estimated for female gizzard shad in a northcentral Texas reservoir. Total and weight-specific calories allocated to Pr increased with age, but the ratio Pr/(Pr + Pg) increased only to age V, then decreased. Females matured sexually 1 year later than females in northern lakes, presumably because of differences in predator pressures.
10.2307/3669774|Physicochemical conditions and benthic macroinvertebrates were studied in Village Creek, a southeast Texas clean water stream. Physicochemical conditions varied seasonally, downstream and with discharge. A total of 143 taxa of mecrobenthos were collected and the number at each station ranged from 44 to 98. Diversity was determined by Shannon's index (d). Station d values for individual collections ranged from zero to 4.50. Annual d values ranged from 3.21 to 4.93. The large number of taxa and high d values obtained in this unstable sand substrate environment may have been due to high discharge, carrying many taxa from small tributaries and other diverse habitats in the drainage basin. The concept of high diversity-high environmental stability was contradicted and high d values occurred during maximum discharge and stream scouring. Lowest d values occurred after return to near normal discharge conditions.
10.2307/3669775|Within the low coastal sands vegetative type on Padre Island National Seashore, plots were burned and mowed during two seasons to reduce litter accumulations while maintaining plant cover. Burning proved an effective means of removing litter; mowing was less effective and more difficult. Winter burning produced the most vegetation, late summer burning less vegetation, and mowing adversely affected the vegetation.
10.2307/3669776|Effects of a subalpine wildfire on populations of wildlife in north-central Colorado were investigated 8 years after the burn. Inventories of birds and mammals were compared on the 190-ha burn with those from an adjacent similar site of lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta) in 1974. Species diversity for birds and small mammals was greater on the burn than in the adjacent lodgepole. Species composition of both birds and mammals was different in the two habitats, but population densities of birds and small mammals were not significantly different in the two habitats in summer. Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and elk (Cervus canadensis) used the burn more than the lodgepole during winter. Estimated values of total biomass for all birds and mammals were similar for both habitats.
10.2307/3669777|A fossil packrat midden from 1280 m elevation in the limestone Livingston Hills south of Shafter, Presidio Country, Texas, was radiocarbon dated at 15,695  230 B. P. (A-1581 on Juniperus). The paleocommunity was a pinyonjuniper woodland with Pinus edulis and 26 associated species. Holacantha stewarti was an important desert species in the paleocommunity. A total of 139 species was recorded in the present xeric Chihuahuan Desert flora near the midden site. Late Pleistocene paleocommunities and the timing of biotic changes in the northern Chihuahuan Desert are discussed.
10.2307/3670239|In a sprayed tobosagrass-mesquite community, plots consisting of a control sprayed in 1966, an unsprayed control, and burns from one to six growing seasons old, were studied during wet (1973) and dry (1974) years on the Rolling Plains of Texas Spring, summer and fall plant frequency, density, cover and yield were combined into a relative importance value (I max = 600.0). A total of 121 species were collected, of which 37 were significant in a wet year (1973) and 8 in a dry year (1974). Tobosagrass was singularly the most important species. Response to fire of this community was largely the response of one species, tobosagrass, and the reaction of other species to it. After fire, tobosagrass and other herbs reached equilibrium with the controls by the fifth growing season. Biomass, growth rate, canopy area, height and resprout numbers were studied with individual plants of honey mesquite, lotebush and pricklypear. Within six growing seasons, surviving shrubs, except for honey mesquite, had regained at least 70.0% of their pre-burn characteristics. Spraying followed by burning may reduce the sphere of influence of honey mesquite for about 20 years. Growth rates of burned plants reached equilibrium with those of unburned plants by the sixth growing season. Fire killed some mesquite (27.0%) and pricklypear (55.5%) but lotebush was not killed.
10.2307/3670240|The ecological determinants of activity patterns of peccaries (Dicotyles tajacu Linnaeus) were studied in Big Bend National Park, Texas, from June 1972 to April 1974. Cessation of feeding activity and initiation of bedding were found to be negatively correlated with minimum daily temperature <tex-math>$(\text{r}^{2}=0.51)$</tex-math>. The colder the preceding night and early morning (minimal temperatures were generally reached at about 0500) the later into the morning peccaries fed before bedding for the day. Depending on temperature, peccaries bedded from 0800 to approximately noon. Onset of feeding activity in the afternoon was correlated with maximal daily afternoon temperatures <tex-math>$(\text{r}^{2}=0.64)$</tex-math>. As maximal temperatures increased in the summer, peccaries remained in their bed progressively later into the day. During the winter months peccaries left their beds in the early afternoon (1500), whereas during the hottest summer months activity was seldom initiated before 1700-1800.
10.2307/3670241|Heath aster produced large quantities of achenes; however, only few appear to be germinative under greenhouse or field conditions. Health aster can be propagated from rhizomes with intact or decapitated apex or from excised rhizome segments transplanted individually. It exhibits an extreme range of morphological characteristics. Winter rosettes were characterized by long linear leaves, but as plants matured leaves become progressively smaller until they were reduced to scale-like form. Heath aster initiated growth in the fall of one year and matured in the fall of the following year. The dominant form of nonstructural carbohydrates stored in heath aster stems and underground organs was fructosans. Total nonstructural carbohydrate was highest in rhizomes, followed in descending order by roots, stems, and leaves. Leaves of heath aster were significantly higher in percent nitrogen (N) than stems. Nitrogen in leaves ranged from 1.9 to 2.3% and in stems from 0.3 to 1.6%. In vitro dry matter digestibility and crude protein content of stems were highest in March but declined rapidly with increasing maturity. Grazing enhanced growth of axillary buds and production of herbaceous growth on caudices. Grazing reduced total nonstructural carbohydrate (TNC) content of stems and roots, but did not significantly influence the TNC level in leaves or the nutrient content of leaves and stems of heath aster.
10.2307/3670242|Cordylophora lacustris (Coelenterata) was collected from five inland fresh-water habitats across Texas, the first records for the species in the state. Morphological variations were observed in specimens from different habitats, a phenomenon that seems correlated to seasonal growth patterns and to physicochemical differences between the aqueous environments. The species is adaptable to a variety of ecological conditions and is probably more widespread than the literature indicates.
10.2307/3670243|The spatial distribution of anthochlor pigments in ray florets of ten genera (86 species) of the Asteraceae (tribes Heliantheae and Helenieae) is presented. The presence and spatial segregation of these pigments yield a floral UV-absorption pattern, visible to pollinating insects, which may play a major role in reproductive isolation and speciation in the plant groups.
10.2307/3670244|A sample of 505 Thomomys bottae trapped over a five-week period of the breeding season in Fishlake Valley, Nevada, was examined. The observed reproductive conditions of individuals are summarized. The male/female ratio of reproductive gophers was 1:2.9, whereas that of juvenile nonreproductive animals was 1:1.2. Results support the hypothesis that T. bottae is polygynous. Predictions are offered regarding natural selection in this type of pocket gopher breeding system.
10.2307/3670245|In light-trap collections 1974-1977, 26 species of caddisflies were collected at Lake Texoma, Texas and Oklahoma. The lentic Cyrnellus fraternus (Banks), Hydroptila waubesiana Betten, and Oecetis inconspicua (Walker) numerically dominated; however, many typical lotic species were present with their larvae occupying the rocky, wave-swept margins of the lake. Greater numbers of species were collected than in earlier studies of Lake Texoma. Oecetis inconspicua adults were parasitized by the unionicolid water mite Koenikea nr wolcotti.
10.2307/3670246|The N<sub>2</sub>-fixing activities of glucose amended soils of two old field successional plots (P<sub>1</sub>-pioneer weed stage, P<sub>2</sub>-annual grass stage) and one prairie site (P<sub>2</sub>) were estimated using the C<sub>2</sub>H<sub>2</sub>-reduction assay. Yearly mean values <tex-math>$(p\ \text{moles}\ \text{C}_{2}\text{H}_{4}\cdot \text{g}\ \text{soil}^{-1}\cdot \text{hr}^{-1})$</tex-math> were P<sub>1</sub>, 2447; P<sub>2</sub>, 2764 and P<sub>4</sub>, 7907. The magnitude of stimulation of N<sub>2</sub>-ase activities of amended soils over those of non-amended soils were P<sub>1</sub>, 107x; P<sub>2</sub>, 180x and P<sub>4</sub>, 86x. The differences in activity among sites were not entirely accounted for by differing amounts of metabolic substrates, but appear to result, in part, from the allelopathic effects of several species of the early successional stages. These data further support the contention that the longevity of the P<sub>2</sub> seral sage is related to a biological suppression of the accumulation of soil nitrogen.
10.2307/3670247|The locomotor responses of two cyprinodontid fishes to dissolved oxygen concentrations were studied. Movements of the pupfish were largely unaffected by dissolved oxygen in their external aquatic medium, whereas movements of the killifish were restricted to a relatively narrow zone of dissolved oxygen.
10.2307/3670248|Nine helminth species (5 cestodes, 4 nematodes) were recovered from 128 Sigmodon hispidus collected in two mesic and three upland habitats in western Texas. These are Taenia taeniaeformis and T. rileyi (both as larvae), Monoecocestus sigmodontis, Raillietina bakeri, Hymenolepis diminuta, Mastophorus muris, Syphacia sigmodontis, Physaloptera sp., and an unidentified oxyuroid. Utilyzing an index of similarity, comparisons were made between the helminth faunas at the five collecting sites and also between the two habitats in Texas and three habitats in Florida. The data suggest that host habitat has a marked influence on the composition of the helminth fauna of Sigmodon hispidus.
10.2307/3670249|Yucca baccata and Yucca elata are Chihuahuan desert plants which develop massive inflorescence stalks, large flowers and heavy fruits. A field study on the NMSU College Ranch found an average Y. baccata invests over 250 g of biomass (oven dry) into these reproductive structures, with about half of this in fruits. Its fruits are strongly affected by the yucca moth whose larvae develop inside the fruit and consume the maturing seeds. A comparative laboratory study found the optimum net photosynthesis rate of Y. baccata leaves below 25C, whereas Y. elata leaves had an optimum above 30C, assuming equivalent moisture and irradiance levels. These physiological differences correlate well with their observed patterns of vegetative and reproductive growth. Y. baccata grows better in cooler seasons and sites than Y. elata. A computer simulation study of reproductive and vegetative growth in Y. baccata indicated that an average-sized plant needs about 10-12% of its dry biomass as stored carbohydrates in order to produce an average-sized inflorescence with flowers and fruits. A lesser amount resulted in depletion of stored energy to less than 1%. Depending on environmental conditions, the simulation indicated that about three years were required to rebuild stored energy to the level needed for another reproductive effort.
10.2307/3670250|Siren intermedia nettingi Goin is unique among salamanders in combining high density <tex-math>$(0.9-1.3\ \text{sirens}/\text{m}^{2})$</tex-math> through high net productivity <tex-math>$(29\text{g}/\text{m}^{2}/\text{year})$</tex-math> with large size (x 42 g) to attain a standing crop biomass of <tex-math>$38-57\ \text{g}/\text{m}^{2}$</tex-math>. Characteristics that contribute to the high productivity include great fecundity (151-226 eggs/female/year) and rapid growth (0.42%/day) to sexual maturity in one year. The standing crop of S. intermedia alone may be 1.1-1.3 times that predicted for all seven species of insectivorous fishes in the same beaver pond community in Texas. Siren intermedia is unusual among vertebrates in being both an early colonizer and dominant species in at least two different successional stages of a single community.
10.2307/3670251|The influence of pond substrate on algal composition and annual succession was studied for one year in two Oklahoma farm ponds, one having a clay substrate and the other sandstone. Consideration was also given to the pH and temperature changes during the year. Exclusive of the diatoms, 290 species were identified from the sandstone pond while 275 species were found in the clay pond. While both ponds yielded 79 genera, a total of 98 general were identified from both ponds collectively. One hundred and thirty species of algae not previously reported for Oklahoma have been added to the algal flora as a result of this study.
10.2307/3670252|Kyphosis of a mature female Yaqui slider from Mexico is described and figured. This pathological condition was previously unknown in neotropical turtles. A complete survey of all published accounts of chelonian kyphosis is presented. There are no previously published accounts of kyphosis in any neotropical chelonian. We report herein the occurrence of this pathological condition in a mature female Yaqui slider, Chrysemys scripta yaquia, and summarize all existing literature accounts of the condition in turtles. Except for the original description (Legler and Webb 1970), nothing else appears to be known about the biology of C. s. yaquia, a species presently known only from Sonora, Mexico. The kyphotic individual (Fig. 1) was discovered in a shipment of stuffed, shellacked turtles delivered to a gift shop in Ensenada, Baja California Norte, Mexico. For comparison, a large mature male was also purchased from the group. The dimensions of the pair are given in Table 1. In addition to the osteological deformation of the carapace, several scute anomalies were noted. Eight central scutes are present, of which the first and second are approximately normal, but the remainder are undersized and irregularly shaped. The hump is centered over the area which would normally be occupied by the third central. The left second and third lateral scutes are abnormally compressed anteroposteriorly. The marginal scutes number 25, with the supernumerary element being on the left. A small intergular scute (14 mm long) is present. A radiograph (Fig. 1D) demonstrates that lateral deviation of the vertebral column (scoliosis) is absent. Except for an old injury at the level of the sixth and seventh left marginal scutes, no additional gross osteological deformities were detected. The kyphotic female (SDNHM 30331) and the normal comparison male (SDNHM 30332) were deposited in the collections of the San Diego Natural History Museum. Although doubtlessly observed earlier, the first published record of a kyphotic turtle is that of Wandolleck (1904). At present, this pathological phenomenon has been noted in 5 families, 12 genera and 21 species as indicated in Table 2. It seems reasonable to suppose that the condition arises occasionally in all chelonian species (with the possible exception of the unusual leatherback turtle, Dermochelys coriacea), as the occurrence appears to cut broadly across taxonomic and ecological divisions.
10.2307/3670253|The previously undetermined status of the rock bass in Blue Spring, a tributary to the Pecos River drainage in southeastern New Mexico, has created some confusion. One view holds that the population may represent an undescribed form or a native relict that should be protected. Examination of 34 specimens from Blue Spring and detailed comparison with many specimens from eastern populations has led us to conclude that the Blue Spring population represents an introduction of the northern rock bass, Ambloplites rupestris. Information from the New Mexico Department of Game and Fish and records of the U.S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries indicate that Blue Spring rock bass were established from brood stock introduced from east of the Mississippi River between 1891 and 1903. Records for established populations of rock bass in other states west of its native range are briefly mentioned.
10.2307/3670254|Photosynthesis and transpiration of Agave lecheguilla Torr., an important Chihuahuan desert indicator, were studied under laboratory conditions. A factorial statistical design was used to examine the main effects and interactions of night temperature, water status, and atmospheric dew point temperature on CO<sub>2</sub> and H<sub>2</sub>O exchange rates, titratable acidity and transpiration ratios (TR). Gas exchange, organic acid dynamics, and transpiration ratios were found to be broadly similar to other Crassulacean Acid Metabolism (CAM) plants. Night temperature was the most influential experimental factor, but both watering frequency and dew point were also important to various physiological parameters. The environmental relations and ecological implications of CAM photosynthesis in A. lecheguilla are discussed.
10.2307/3670255|The fishes of Leon Creek are an assemblage of opportunists with a wide spectrum of feeding habits. The relative abundance of various taxa changed following a rotenone treatment designed to reduce genetic contamination of an endemic (Cyprinodon bovinus) by an introduced exotic (C. variegatus). Except for green sunfish, each fish (and a Gambusia hybrid swarm) was reestablished and is predicted to resume its role in the ecosystem in the near future.
10.2307/3670256|This study catalogues the flowering plants of South Padre Island, Texas. A total of 207 species in 47 families is listed. The abundance and ecological distribution of each taxon are noted. Comparisons are made with the flora of Mustang Island, Texas. Ninety-three species, 96 genera and 36 families are common to both islands. Three families, Compositae, Gramineae and Leguminosae, contain large shares of the total number of species on both islands. Apparently, much of the floral diversity is due to the presence of a large number of species that are represented by small populations.
10.2307/3670257|Specimens of Rhinichthys osculus collected from the Moapa River between 1963 and 1967 were examined to determine their taxonomic status relative to other populations of R. osculus in southern Nevada. The Moapa River population is distinct, and is regarded as a new subspecies. The new subspecies is characterized by adaptations to its swift water habitat, including expansive, falcate dorsal and anal fins and expansive, deeply forked caudals. Meristically, the new subspecies exhibits characteristics intermediate between those of R. o. velifer and R. o. yarrowi.
10.2307/3670258|The Virginia River roundtail chub, Gila robusta seminuda, was collected in the mainstream of the Virgin River downstream from Hurricane, Utah. It occurred in about one-half of all mainstream collections and comprised less than three percent of the fauna. The chub was generally found in runs and pools over substrates of sand and sediment in physically and chemically unmodified areas. The chub population has declined during the past 100 years due to increased agricultural and urban water use, decreased water quality, and introduction of exotic fishes.
10.2307/3671176| Pristina unidentata Harman is transferred to the genus Bratislavia Koel as the result of the examination of sexually mature material. 
10.2307/3671177|The McElroy Swamp in Ascension Parish, Louisiana, consisted of a variety of habitats, three of which were sampled. Each of the three stations was distinct from the others in terms of both physico-chemical features and faunal characteristics. Significantly different communities existed in spite of the close proximity of one station to another. The cooler, shaded, temporary waters of the mixed hardwoods swamp exhibited a relatively stable chemical regime. The macroinvertebrates were those of protected situations with minimal variations in water conditions. Hydrozoans, hemipterans, coleopterans, chironomids and culicids characterized this habitat. The permanent waters of the cypress swamp were more exposed to sunlight. Oxygen saturation, carbon dioxide, and related factors were largely controlled by the dense aquatic plant community. Chemical characteristics of these waters were more variable than the mixed swamp. There was an abundance of some species of water mites, backswimmers, odonates, and the mosquito Culex. The dead cypress swamp was unprotected from sun and wind. A dense growth of aquatic vegetation offered and abundance of food and substrates for benthic invertebrates. However, variations in physico-chemical factors were extreme. Chironomid and naidid abundance was highly variable. Gastropods, caddisflies, mayflies, and dipterans, particularly biting midges, characterized this habitat.
10.2307/3671178|Carrion community composition was examined in 40 rabbit carcasses at three northern Chihuahuan Desert study areas in Texas and New Mexico from May to August, 1976. Four seral stages of decomposition are described for the carcasses: Fresh, Active, Advanced Decay, and Dried. Of 80 arthropod species collected, 63 are identified as participants in the carrion community. Six vertebrate forms were participants. Probable feeding roles of arthropod and vertebrate taxa are presented. Diversity and concentration of dominance were calculated for seral stages, and relationships to resource diversity and food chain complexity are discussed. Removal efficiency of vertebrates and colonization efficiency of arthropods are correlated to describe a probable abbreviation of arthropod carrion communities in small carcasses; possible implication for arthropod adaptations are presented. No direct correlation appeared between carrion community composition and area meteorological conditions.
10.2307/3671179|Non-geographic and geographic variation of cranial and antler measurements are herein assessed in populations of the Carmen Mountains white-tailed deer (O. v. carminis) from northern Coahuila and Trans-Pecos Texas. Age, sexual, and individual variation was studied in a sample from Big Bend National Park (BBNP), Brewster County, Texas. Previously, BBNP was thought to support the only population of carminis in the United States. However, comparisons of cranial measurements among Texas white-tailed deer (O. v. texanus), Coues' white-tailed deer (O. v. couesi), and carminis reveal that white-tailed deer from the Rosillos, Christmas, Chinati, and Davis mountains in the Trans-Pecos should be referred to carminis. This assignment extends the range of carminis between 190 and 200 kilometers (km) to the north and northwest into Jeff Davis and Presidio counties. Habitat preferences and population sizes of carminis in the Trans-Pecos are discussed.
10.2307/3671180|Debate concerning the taxonomic status of lesser (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) and greater (T. cupido) prairie chickens has occurred during the past several decades. This study was designed to determine if the two prairie chickens were interfertile and to describe certain behavioral and morphological characteristics of the hybrids. Six F
10.2307/3671181|I studied clutch size and reproductive success of purple martins (Progne subis) in 36 colonies in Grayson County, Texas, in 1972-76. Clutch size and success of adult and subadult (or first-year) martins were compared, as was the success of the various clutch sizes. Subadult martins laid fewer eggs, laid more non-hatching eggs, and lost more eggs than did adults, but adults lost more young. Subadult martins fledged nearly the same percentage of their clutch as did adult martins. More young were lost from broods of five to seven young than from smaller broods, but no other significant inter-clutch trends were apparent. The data were compared with the available literature on the breeding biology of purple martins.
10.2307/3671182|Males of "Anthidium palmarum" Cockerell, and of Anthophora sp. display territorial behavior, presumably to gain advantage in reproduction through the dispersal of sexually mature males. The territories maintained by these insects are based on the food plants of their females. Lupinus arizonicus (Wats.) Wats. can be a food plant for females of both species. Consequently an individual lupine plant may occasionally occur in the overlapping territories of male Anthidium and male Anthophora bees. The peak activities of these two species are separate. Anthophora bees are active in the early morning and late afternoon, and Anthidium bees are active in the mid-morning and mid-afternoon. Territories are maintained through regular patrols and periodic confrontations. Confrontations were of three types: first, territorial defense against other territorial males; second, territorial protection against other insects; and, third, sexual encounters with their own females. The territorial and sexual behavior of Anthidium and Anthophora males influences the pollination ecology of L. arizonicus by altering the behavior of Anthidium and Anthophora females (which in this case are the primary pollinators of L. arizonicus) as well as honey bees, leafcutting bees, and several lepidopterans.
10.2307/3671183|Observations on eight species of Arizona backswimmers in the field and laboratory confirm that, although each is capable of utilizing many available food types, certain prey organisms are selected when an assortment is presented. Cannibalism is common in notonectid populations in the laboratory and is more prevalent in certain species. The significance of cannibalism in these species is reviewed using personal records. The victims probably are being attacked in the same manner as other prey types.
10.2307/3671184|A comparison of the productivity of burned and unburned portions of an abandoned native pasture was made. The harvest method was used to sample aboveground biomass at two week intervals beginning on 3 April and terminating on 7 September 1976. The harvested material was separated into green biomass, standing dead, and litter. With the exception of the first sampling date, green biomass production was substantially higher on the burned site than the unburned site. The peak standing crop of green biomass on the burned site was 216
10.2307/3671185|Rotifer populations were studied in Massey Lake, a warm monomictic, eutrophic, oxbow lake, from October, 1971, to October, 1972. Sixteen taxa were collected from submerged objects. Plankton rotifer concentrations were directly correlated with phytoplankton concentrations and water temperature. Keratella cochlearis was the dominant planktonic form and exhibited incomplete cyclomorphosis. "Lecane" spp. and "Monostyla" spp. were the dominant rotifers on submerged objects.
10.2307/3671186|A population of Sceloporus poinsetti was studied in an area (Highlonesome, Hidalgo County, New Mexico) syntopically occupied by the closely related Sceloporus jarrovi. The life history of S. poinsetti at this location appeared very similar to that observed in a population allopatric to S. jarrovi which was previously studied (Ballinger 1973) in Irion County, Texas. Age at maturity (15-16 months) and number of young produced were similar, although litter size was reduced during years of low rainfall in New Mexico. High food niche overlap between S. jarrovi and young S. poinsetti may explain the smaller size at maturity and increased mortality of yearling S. poinsetti (as reflected in age structure of the Highlonesome population). Niche overlap indices suggested that the relative rarity of S. jarrovi at this location is likely due to direct competition for food by S. poinsetti. Niche overlap was greatest between yearling S. poinsetti and S. jarrovi. Niche overlap was reduced between the two species during low insect abundance early in the summer as a result of increased herbivory by S. poinsetti.
10.2307/3671187|Sphaeralcea coccinea (Nutt.) Rydb. has been treated for many years as having three varieties whose separation has been based primarily on leaf morphology. Populations of each were sampled to determine the value of these characters in differentiating infraspecific taxa. Stepwise discriminant analysis was applied to both natural and garden grown material. The data indicate Sphaeralcea coccinea should be treated as having two varieties. A taxonomic treatment is presented.
10.2307/3671188|Wild-trapped white-tailed ptarmigan (Lagopus leucurus) were transplanted from Colorado to a site in the Uinta Mountains, Utah, in June and September, 1976. In all, 55 birds were released, consisting of 50 birds older than 9 months (25 males, 25 females) and 5 young of the year. Successful nesting and production were documented in both 1976 and 1977, with good survival suggested from one breeding season to the next. Prospects for continued success of the transplant are excellent.
10.2307/3671189|The perennial vegetation of a Sonoran Desert bajada was described in terms of gradients of (i) environmental variables, (ii) species populations, and (iii) community characteristics. Changes in plant species composition along the bajada were related to differences in soil particle size distribution and salinity.
10.2307/3670620|A zooplankton community of copepods (Diaptomus dorsalis and Mesocyclops edax) and cladocerans (Bosmina longirostris, Diaphanosoma leuchtenber gianum, Ceriodaphnia quadrangula, Chydorus sphaericus, and Daphnia pulex) was studied from October 1973 through September 1974 in a small (mean surface area = 0.94 ha, mean depth = 1.5 m) pond. Maximal numerical densities for the entire zooplankton community occurred in March, June, and October. Maximal biomass and its caloric equivalent were reached in June. Maximal species diversity in numbers, biomass and calories occurred during June-July when all species were nearly equally abundant. In general, cladocerans were dominant in the fall-winter and copepods in the spring. Mean annual standing crop was 4.9 and 11.3 kcal m<sup>-2</sup> for copepods and cladocerans, respectively. These groups were estimated to have turned-over 450 and 406 times during the year, with an estimated 11.8 and 13.5% of their energy flow going to metabolic heat, and 0.7 and 1.7% to higher trophic levels, principally larval and young-of-the-year bullhead, white crappie, and large-mouth bass.
10.2307/3670621|Confusion frequently exists with regard to the identification of three species of pocket mice (Perognathus penicillatus, P. intermedius, and P. nelsoni) of the subgenus Chaetodipus. To determine accurate ways of distinguishing these species, we recorded 12 cranial and 4 external measurements from large series of specimens of each species in Trans-Pecos Texas. Methods of identifying skin-only and skull-only specimens are presented. Skins are most easily distinguished on the basis of degree of presence or absence of rump spines. Because qualitative cranial features reported in the literature were not consistently reliable in distinguishing species, discriminant function analysis was used to identify skulls of these species. Correct identification of specimens has resulted in the first record of sympatry between P. intermedius and P. nelsoni as well as a redefinition of the ranges of these three species in Trans-Pecos Texas.
10.2307/3670622|Stomach contents of 464 bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) from ponds and streams in two southwestern Oklahoma counties were examined and compared. Pond-inhabiting frogs fed primarily on insects (82% of total weight), principally beetles but also grasshoppers and true bugs. Crayfish comprised 6% by weight of the total foods examined. All stomachs of stream-inhabiting bullfrogs, by contrast, contained more crayfish, which constituted 73% by weight of all food items. Insects, although second in importance, composed only 25% of total food weight, with coleopterans the predominant insect food.
10.2307/3670623|Geographic variation among populations of short-tailed shrews (genus Blarina) from Texas is reviewed herein using univariate and multivariate statistics. In terms of size, two phena (which are arranged into three subspecies) of short-tailed shrews occur in Texas. The smallest shrews (B. carolinensis minima) occur in the southern part of eastern Texas; the largest shrews are from the northern and central parts of eastern Texas (B. c. carolinensis) and from Aransas County in southern Texas (B. c. plumbea). The size relationships of the three subspecies are interpreted in light of the morphology and geographic distribution of Blarina in Texas during the Pleistocene.
10.2307/3670624|Based on field observations of individually marked animals, home range estimates for eight adult male and eight adult female tassel-eared squirrels (Sciurus aberti) were calculated for the breeding (April and May) and nonbreeding (June through March) seasons. The mean home range size of adult males was significantly larger during the breeding season than during the remainder of the year. This increase resulted from extensive movements of males in search of estrous females. No significant increase in the home range size of females occurred during the breeding season. Home ranges of both males and females were somewhat smaller in summer than in winter, possibly reflecting changes in diet. Although seasonal changes in home range size were exhibited, the general pattern of home range usage remained essentially the same throughout the annual cycle.
10.2307/3670625|Spatial activity of the cotton rat was measured over a 2-week period to detect differences related to demographic substructure of the population. Average distances moved between recaptures of individual animals <tex-math>$(\text{AvD}_{\text{I}})$</tex-math> and for the population <tex-math>$(\text{AvD}_{\text{p}})$</tex-math> were computed. Males moved farther than females, adult males farther than young adult males, and reproductive males farther than non-reproductive males; there were no differences in movements among females. There were no differences between nocturnal or diurnal movement distances or frequencies. Analysis of the centers of activity suggests females and adults possess exclusive areas.
10.2307/3670626|Body components, mainly lipids and water, were measured in the eastern pipistrelle, Pipistrellus subflavus, in May 1975 and from October 1975 through May 1976 in Bat Cave, Newton County, Arkansas. Fat-free dry weight (FFDW) remained relatively constant throughout the study period (males 1.19-1.33 g; females 1.31-1.57 g). Fat content varied seasonally with the highest fat index (g fat/g FFDW) in October (males 1.54 and females 1.70 units) and the lowest in May (males 0.13 and females 0.26 units). Water indices of both sexes were high in May (2.85 g water/g FFDW) and low in December (females 2.01 and males 2.24 units). During winter hibernation all pipistrelles were observed to roost in areas of the cave where relative humidity exceeded 80%.
10.2307/3670627|Effect of environmental structure on the location of ground squirrel burrow entrances was measured in a large and a small park, both with relatively open habitats, as well as in a cemetery with many tombstones and trees. Entrances were classified as either main burrow entrances, showing heavy use, or secondary burrow entrances. Measures of the environmental complexity were taken from a number of points in each, as well as from each burrow entrance. These measures were compared to determine if the environment surrounding the burrow entrances differed from that of the overall area. Measurements in the large park and cemetery indicate burrow entrances are situated in areas with greater amounts of the horizon obstructed than expected by chance and in areas with more obstructions. When obstructions are present, entrances are located nearer to them than expected by chance. Entrances did not appear to be placed in locations which reduce the visibility to the nearest neighbor.
10.2307/3670628|Western mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis affinis) were tested in a y-maze for avoidance of Folicote, an antitranspirant chemical proposed for spraying riparian areas in the southwestern United States to reduce phreatophyte vegetation water loss. Test fish avoided Folicote concentrations  0.75%, indicating mosquitofish could avoid potentially lethal conditions resulting from Folicote use.
10.2307/3670629|This paper presents a description of a new anostracan (Crustacea: Branchiopoda), Branchinecta potassa, new species, collected from potassium rich waters in Sheridan County and Cherry County, Nebraska, USA.
10.2307/3670630|Substantial emergence of Drummond's goldenweed (Isocoma Drummondii (T. & G.) Greene; Compositae) seedlings on the Texas Coastal Prairie occurred in 1 of the 2 yr study. Immediately following seed dispersal in January 1976, average density of new seedlings <tex-math>$(2667/\text{m}^{2})$</tex-math> on a grey sandy loam was nine times that of a tight sandy loam and almost 30 times that on a honey mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa Torr. var. glandulosa)-dominated loamy sand site. No new seedlings survived the spring season under natural conditions on any of the three sites, although seedling densities remained high in a fenced exclosure, especially where artificially seeded. Cumulative annual mortality of second-year seedlings was 100% on the loamy sand, 47% on the grey sandy loam, and 25% on the tight sandy loam site. Initial establishment of two populations of Drummond's goldenweed appear to have coincided with mechanical removal or serious disturbance of the mixed-brush overstory. Maximum rate of stem elongation (1.77 mm/day) of mature Drummond's goldenweed growing in full sunlight occurred during late summer and was associated with high rainfall. Stem growth of juvenile Drummond's goldenweed on a deep, calcareous site with high extractable phosphorus varied closely with soil water availability (r = 0.85). On a heavier-textured, poorly-drained soil with a shallow argillic horizon where salts and sodium accumulated, stem growth was suppressed regardless of soil water availability. Average stem elongation rates of juvenile and mature Drummond's goldenweed across all sites and sampling dates were 0.49 and 0.77 mm/day, respectively.
10.2307/3670631|Current land-use and natural area preservation activities in New Mexico could be aided with a knowledge of the extent and boundaries of past and present vegetation types. Previous work has indicated that there have been extensive shifts in desert, grassland, and juniper savanna boundaries in portions of New Mexico since the last quarter of the nineteenth century. This work has been expanded to create a map using the territorial survey records as a data source for the reconstruction of New Mexico vegetation patterns for the period 1875 to 1900. A conservative vegetation classification was used because only approximately one-third of the survey record was tabulated. Complete tabulation of the survey record would result in a more refined classification of the vegetation below the coniferous forest line. However, the map presented will make possible valid comparisons of recent shifts in the Desert-Grassland-Woodland Savanna complexes in the state.
10.2307/3670632|Schoenolirion wrightii is proposed as a new species, even though the plant has been known to botanists for more than a century as S. texanum (Scheele) A. Gray. There is compelling evidence that the basionym of S. texanum (Ornithogalum texanum Scheele) was representative of a species of Camassia, and all names applied to the plant in the past were based upon the Scheele type or are unacceptable for other reasons.
10.2307/3670633|Plant macrofossils from packrat middens from the Hueco Mountains, El Paso and Hudspeth Counties, Texas, allow comparison of the present and past vegetations on igneous and limestone substrates. Middens document a pinyon-juniper woodland at 13,500  250 B.P. in the Hueco Tanks State Historical Park and at 12,030  210 B.P. in the adjacent limestone Hueco Mountains. A more xeric juniper-oak woodland was present in the Hueco Tanks at 9380  270 B.P. and at 9370  130 and 8150  170 B.P. in the limestone Hueco Mountains. About 8000 years ago, the onset of middle Holocene climates differentially reduced woodland elements on the nearby limestone massifs while the igneous, syenite-derived soils of Hueco Tanks supported a comparatively mesic, low-elevation oak-juniper woodland refugium. Favorable edaphic conditions and topography allowed woodland species to persist at the Hueco Tanks until the present time.
10.2307/3670634|A survey of the planarians in Arkansas was conducted principally during June 1974 and July 1976. Seventy-six collection sites from all major drainage systems and in 40 counties yielded seven species belonging to two families, Planariidae and Dendrocoelidae. Dugesia dorotocephala was obtained from 27 sites, predominantly in the Boston and Ouachita Mountains; and Dugesia trigrina occurred at another 33 sites and was generally distributed, except in the area occupied mainly by D. dorotocephala. Cura foremanii was found at 14 sites and was distributed rather uniformly throughout the state. Several monopharyngeal, immature specimens of Phagocata sp. were collected from four sites, each in a different county. Phagocata gracilis, a polypharyngeal form, inhabited six sites, all of which were restricted to the eastern half of the state. Two specimens of Procotyla fluviatilis were collected at one site in eastern Arkansas. Dendrocoelopsis americana was found in epigean habitats on Rich Mountain (Polk Co.) and in Mobley Cave (Washington Co.). Maps showing collection sites are presented, and some physicochemical features of the collecting sites are described: type of substrate, temperature, pH, calcium, total dissolved solids, and dissolved oxygen.
10.2307/3670635|A total of 344 periphyton taxa was collected on samplers from the Grand River, Chouteau Creek, Pryor Creek, and ponds located on Grand River Dam Authority property in Mayes County, Oklahoma, from February 1977 to August 1977. Of these, 115 are new records for Oklahoma. On the basis of species diversity, the Grand River and Chouteau Creek are shown to be relatively unpolluted and Pryor Creek to be only slightly polluted.
10.2307/3670636|Vegetation of the southern Edwards Plateau in northwestern Bexar County and northeastern Medina County, Texas, was analyzed using the point-centered-quarter method to determine major community relationships. Two geologically different areas were studied, including outcroppings of the Buda formation and Quaternary deposits or creekbottoms. Although the total acreage occupied by the Quaternary deposits and intermittent creeks was small compared to the overall area studied, many species were found only in the creekbottoms. A total of 35 woody species was encountered; 49% were found only in riparian habitats, 14% were exclusively upland, and 37% were common. Dominants on the Buda formation were Mexican juniper (Juniperus ashei), live oak (Quercus fusiformis), and Texas persimmon (Diospyros texana), while Mexican juniper, cedar elm (Ulmus crassifolia), sycamore (Platanus occidentalis), and Texas persimmon were dominants in the creekbottoms. The number of species, total density and the sum of average dominance values were statistically different in the two communities. There were 30% more species in the creekbottoms and total density was almost three times greater on the Buda; however, the sum of the average dominance values was eight times greater in the creekbottoms.
10.2307/3670637|Rainwater killifish, Lucania parva, were found in False River, Louisiana. Results of meristic and morphometric analyses indicated that, unlike inland populations from Texas, New Mexico, and Florida, the False River population was not modified from coastal varieties.
10.2307/3670918|Descriptions of the morphology, cytology, habitat, and distribution of the poorly known Chihuahuan endemic, Parnassia townsendii, are presented. The significance of this plant, restricted to the Sierra Madre Occidental, Mexico, is discussed in light of its importance in the study of Mexican flora, the phytogeography of the western cordillera of North America, and the evolution of the P. fimbriata complex.
10.2307/3670919|Field investigations in the Concho Valley of west-central Texas have revealed the presence of six species of nesting vireos (Vireo atricapilla, V. griseus, V. bellii, V. vicinior, V. flavifrons, and V. olivaceus). A seventh species (V. gilvus) is probable as a breeding species. Vireo solitarius is a migrant and occasional winter vagrant. Nesting records of V. vicinior and V. flavifrons represent extensions of known ranges in Texas. Records of V. atricapillus, V. griseus, and V. olivaceus confirm their continued presence in the northwest Edwards Plateau. Records of occurrence, descriptions of habitat, and comments on local history are given.
10.2307/3670920|Excavation in 1975 at the Lehner site, southeastern Arizona, produced the fragmented remains of a juvenile American mastodon (Mammut americanum). This is the first reported occurrence of Mammut in Arizona. The mastodon was located on the eroded Millville alluvium surface, dating greater than 30,000
10.2307/3670921|The capture-recapture method was used in west-central Kansas during summer and fall of 1976 to estimate movements of small rodents across roads. The seven species studied were the thirteen-lined ground squirrel (Spermophilus tridecemlineatus), hispid pocket mouse (Perognathus hispidus), western harvest mouse (Reithrodontomys megalotis), deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus), hispid cotton rat (Sigmodon hispidus), prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster), and house mouse (Mus musculus). Grids were established on both sides of two gravel roads, a bituminous two-lane highway, and a divided interstate highway. Results indicated that rodents, with the exception of ground squirrels, did not cross roads; however, due to low sample sizes for some species, the results were not statistically analyzed. When artifically transported across roads, members of five species returned. Evidently, roads inhibit normal movements of rodents but, once displaced across roads, rodents will home.
10.2307/3670922|The utility of external and cranial measurements to distinguish between specimens of Peromyscus leucopus and P. maniculatus from Kansas was assessed. Difficulty in identifying certain individuals was circumvented when age was taken into account. Even when age was not considered, use of discriminant functon analysis enabled correct identification of 99 per cent of the specimens studied.
10.2307/3670923|Aspects of the breeding biology of Olivaceous Cormorants (Phalacrocorax olivaceus) were studied in Texas during 1977. Clutch size averaged 2.87 eggs. Incubation began with the laying of the second egg. Renesting occurred in nests suffering partial or complete clutch loss; replacement clutches were nearly identical in size to first sets. The rapid replacement of lost eggs may play a role in the nesting synchrony of colonial species. Young hatched asynchronously, with nearly 50 percent of all nests fledging at least one young. Four-egg clutches were the most productive. A survivorship curve for eggs and nestlings was calculated. Hatching failure and storms produced the highest level of egg mortality. Starvation, trampling, and/or eviction often resulted in the death of the smallest young of a brood soon after hatching.
10.2307/3670924|The index
10.2307/3670926|Four rodent species were common in a desert shrub habitat and in adjacent riparian woodland habitats in the Sonoran Desert. Patterns of habitat utilization exhibited by these rodents reflect the percent perennial cover available in each habitat and also diet to some extent. The only heteromyid occurring at moderate densities in riparian woodland habitats was Perognathus penicillatus. Cricetid densities, except for Neotoma albigula, were highest in riparian woodland habitats with high percent perennial cover. Seasonal patterns of surface and reproductive activity for rodent species differed between desert shrub and riparian woodland habitats. A peak of seasonal activity for P. penicillatus and Peromyscus eremicus occurred in April-May and August-September in desert shrub. In riparian woodland these species had a large peak of activity in October and November which corresponded to the peak of precipitation for that year. We suggest that environmental extremes of the Sonoran Desert may be somewhat ameliorated in the riparian woodland habitats.
10.2307/3670927|Floristic work in 1975 in the Animas Mountains of southwestern New Mexico has revealed the presence of populations of plant taxa previously unrecorded in New Mexico. These populations reflect three distinct distributional patterns. Most of the taxa are endemic to the montane floras of the northern Sierra Madre Biotic Province. The Animas Mountain populations represent the northeastern end of the ranges of these taxa. Two winter annual taxa represent disjunct populations of far western United States taxa. Finally, two other taxa represent geographically isolated and marginal populations of taxa from regions to the south and east of the Animas Mountains. Explanations for known geographical patterns are offered for some of the taxa. The endemic taxa are Brickellia simplex Gray, Castilleja patriotica Fern., Delphinium andesicola Ewan subsp. andesicola, Plummera ambigens Blake, Silene thurberi Wats., Bidens lemmoni Gray, Cheilanthes pringlei Davenp., and Gnaphalium pringlei Gray. The disjunct taxa from far western United States are Calandrinia ciliata (Ruiz & Pav.) DC. var. menziesii (Hook.) J. F. Macbride and Caucalis microcarpa Hook. & Arn., and the disjuncts from the south and east are Cyclanthera dissecta (Torr. & Gray) Arn. and Tillandsia recurvata L.
10.2307/3670928|During the late fall-early winter period, food preferences and nutrient content of the diet of white-tailed deer were determined for two areas of rangeland in southern Texas. In Hidalgo County, cacti comprised 61.1 percent by volume of the diet, browse 16.4 percent, forbs 12.3 percent, and grasses only 3.0 percent; pricklypear comprised approximately 55 percent of the total diet. In Kenedy and Willacy counties, cacti comprised only 4.3 percent by volume of the diet, whereas forbs comprised 37.9 percent, browse 26.9 percent, and grass 24.8 percent. Nutritional data revealed no important deficiencies on either study area; however, phosphorus and sodium were slightly deficient in several of the foods consumed by deer on rangelands in Hidalgo County. Pricklypear had relatively low levels of crude protein and phosphorus; however, it had a high percentage of digestible dry matter when tested in vitro. Nutritional requirements of white-tailed deer probably are met more readily on rangeland in Kenedy and Willacy counties because of the greater availability and utilization of forbs which are higher in overall nutritional quality.
10.2307/3670929| The endangered Pecos gambusia (Gambusia nobilis) formerly occurred throughout the lower Pecos River drainage. In New Mexico it is presently limited to seven isolated locations at Bitter Lake National Refuge (Chaves County) and one population at Blue Spring (Eddy County). An estimate of these populations is approximately 933,500 fish. Natural cover used by the Pecos gambusia consisted of aquatic vegetation and submerged cliffs. A transplanting operation in 1973 to establish additional G. nobilis populations at the refuge was successful in two of 19 attempts. Reasons for stocking failures were unknown, but water quality may have been a factor as no G. nobilis were found in habitats where hardness exceeded 5,100 mg/l or conductivity greater than 28,000 micromhos. Also, the presence of green sunfish (Lepomis cyanellus) and the lack of aquatic vegetation were probably factors in one case. An estimated 900,000 G. nobilis and over 2,000,000 G. affinis were found sympatrically throughout Blue Spring. The proportion of G. nobilis collected was greatest in spring flows or seepages. Pecos gambusia were found to feed on dipterans and other surface or sub-surface insects of suitable size. Dissection of 20 gravid G. nobilis revealed a mean of 38  7.6 (SD) embryos, which was significantly (P < 0.025) less than G. affinis, with a mean of 56 embryos. The smallest male G. nobilis found with a mature gonopodium was 22 mm, standard length. 
10.2307/3670930|Revised distribution maps, new keys, and updated synonymy are presented for Juniperus erythrocarpa, J. monosperma, and J. pinchotii. These revisions reflect the authors' evidence from the past several years and are presented to aid field workers in the identification of these difficult taxa.
10.2307/3670931|The Escalante River is one of the few Southwestern rivers that has escaped impoundment. Livestock grazing and wood cutting have also been minimal because of the rugged canyon topography. It was thus possible to relate distribution of trees and successional status of the vegetation to geologic strata, river bank morphology, and river flow. Populus fremontii was found only on broad flood terraces in wide sections of the upper part of the study area. The oldest, largest trees of this species were located beyond the zone of usual flooding, probably rooting to the shallow water table in these sections of the river canyon. The major population of Tamarix pentandra was found in the section of canyon where large boulders provided protection from the full force of flooding water. Tamarix also inhabits medium and high flood terraces where river bank angle is steep and susceptible to only occasional flooding. Salix exigua occurred throughout the study area, but was least dense in the narrower, steeper stretches of canyon where Tamarix occurred. The high flood terraces supported the majority of each species population, especially the older age classes. Recolonization of lower terraces must occur from these higher terraces after each major flooding event. Tamarix will likely greatly increase in density if flood frequency and severity and average river flow is diminished by impoundments.
10.2307/3670932|Food preferences were determined for low and high elevation populations of Sceloporus jarrovi in the Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona. Food availability (measured by sticky board traps) was less at both elevations during 1974, when precipitation was less than in 1973. Food abundance was low early in the summer and high later, after summer rains, in both years and elevations. Dipterans, hymenopterans, and homopterans were the most abundant prey types available. Resource utilization variations included increased volume of food taken and increased average prey sizes as food abundances increased. Diversity of food items eaten decreased (lizards became food specialists) as abundance of food available decreased. Categories of principle food items decreased from 1973 (Hymenoptera, Coleoptera, Homoptera, Orthoptera) to 1974 (Hymenoptera, Coleoptera).
10.2307/3670933|A survey of mycoflora from the marine habitats in the vicinity of Port Aransas, Texas, on Mustang Island, during the calendar year 1977 revealed the presence of 34 genera. These populations included 10 genera of Ascomycetes, 22 Fungi Imperfecti, and 2 Zygomycetes. The ascomycetes are mainly obligate marine genera isolated from lignicolous or algicolous substrates. The genera of imperfect fungi are mainly facultative marine or terrestial organisms inhabiting lignicolous and/or arenicolous substrates. Zygomycetes (Mucorales) were isolated from algae.
10.2307/3671296|Germination and survival of 11 perennial plant species were documented in an undisturbed shrub community in southern Nevada. Only one seedling (0.5%) of 201 germinating between 1971 and 1975 survived until the spring of 1977. Larrea tridentata and Ambrosia dumosa germinated after rains of 25 mm between mid-June and September. Atriplex confertifolia, Ceratoides lanata, Ephedra nevadensis, Grayia spinosa, and five other species germinated between October and March after rains of 16 mm.
10.2307/3671297|The species and subspecies of Suphisellus Crotch (Coleoptera: Noteridae) occurring north of Colombia are discussed, and keys and figures given for their identification. The following new names, synonyms, or new combinations are suggested: Suphisellus neglectus n. sp. (Colombia, Panama, Guatemala); S. lineatus (Horn) covers S. centralis (Sharp), S. mexicanus (Sharp), and S. lineatus (Wehncke, not Horn), new synonyms; S. insularis (Sharp) covers S. simplex (Sharp), S. similaris (Sharp), and S. floridanus (Blatchley), new synonyms; S. rufipes (Sharp) is considered a synonym of S. nigrinus (Aub); S. punctipennis (Sharp) is reduced to a subspecies of S. bicolor (Say) producing two new combinations, S. bicolor bicolor (Say) and S. bicolor punctipennis (Sharp); S. gibbulus (Aub) is redefined and lectoholotype and lectoallotype designated. Lectotypes are designated for other species where appropriate.
10.2307/3671298|The vascular floras of gypsum and redbed soils in southwestern Oklahoma were collected and studied during the growing season (April-October) of 1975. A total of 359 taxa in 230 genera and 63 families were included in the study. Thirteen taxa are considered to be gypsophiles and indicators of gypsum soils in Oklahoma. Nine taxa are considered calicoles occurring only on gypsum and limestone derived soils. Two introduced species, Bromus willdenowii and Caesalpinia gilliesii, are believed to be new additions to Oklahoma's flora.
10.2307/3671299|In an agricultural area of the Texas panhandle, arthropod populations associated with Artemisia filifolia were examined on farm lands which were sprayed with the insecticides Sevin and Di-Syston and have a long history of pesticide applications, and on adjacent untilled land. The arthropod community of A. filifolia plants is of non-target organisms. Before the 1976 spray applications, there was no difference in the number of arthropods on A. filifolia in the natural and farmed areas. After the pesticide applications, significant differences emerged between the natural and farmed areas and between pre- and post-spray populations in the farmed area, but not in the natural area.
10.2307/3671301|Arceuthobium apachecum and A. blumeri parasitize Pinus strobiformis in the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. The mortality rate of P. strobiformis in mixed conifer stands heavily infested with A. apachecum was 30 times greater than in non-infested stands and 20 times greater in stands heavily infested with A. blumeri. Surveys in southern Colorado, northern New Mexico, and central Arizona did not detect additional populations of A. apachecum although P. strobiformis is present in those areas. Analysis of morphological characters of the dwarf mistletoe population parasitizing P. strobiformis in the Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona, indicates the parasite is A. apachecum, and not A. blumeri as reported previously. Arceuthobium blumeri is only known in the United States from the Huachuca Mountains, Arizona, but extends south to Durango, Mexico, and is reported here from Sonora, Mexico, for the first time. Contrary to a previous report, A. blumeri frequently causes the formation of witches' brooms on P. strobiformis. Pinus ayacahuite var. brachyptera is recorded as a host of A. blumeri in Durango, Mexico, for the first time.
10.2307/3671302|Using gross leaf morphology, the relationship between Quercus marilandica Muenchh., Q. velutina Lam., and individuals expressing variations intermediate to these two species was examined. By statistically analyzing variation in measured leaf characteristics within and between the groups and using principal components analysis (PCA), it was found that intermediate types tended to overlap in variability with Q. velutina (black oak) more than with Q. marilandica (blackjack oak). Previously, investigators have used this kind of evidence to support introgressive hybridization between taxa. However, we conclude that this pattern of variation may result from an overlap in variation between hybrid and parental types without introgression. We further suggest that the potential inability of investigators to clearly define parental and hybrid variations places limitations on the hybrid index method proposed by Edgar Anderson.
10.2307/3671303|Further observations on the restricted distribution and additional habitat notes are provided for the paleback darter, Etheostoma pallididorsum, that support concerns for its survival. A status of threatened is consequently recommended. Several aspects of feeding and reproductive biology of this darter were obtained from analysis of gut contents and gonadal conditions. Dominant food items were cladocerans, ephemeropterans, and dipteran larvae, while maximum spawning activity appears to occur in February and March, ending by early summer. The more serious threats to survival and suggested conservation measures are discussed.
10.2307/3671304|Fifteen cranial and dental measurements were taken from 138 wild Canis collected during 1975-76 and from 114 specimens collected from 1953-70. These were compared to known target populations of coyotes, red wolves, gray wolves, dogs, and coyote x dog hybrids by discriminant function and canonical variable analyses and were, along with weight and pelage color, used to assign each specimen. Measurements of current (1975-76) specimens were compared with those of older (1953-70) samples to test for temporal changes. Most current Oklahoma specimens were coyote-like, with 82.9 percent of the males and 78.6 percent of the females classified as coyotes. Evidence of coyote x dog hybridization was found in 14.6 and 10.7 percent of the males and females, respectively. Red wolf x coyote ancestry was evident in 2.4 percent of the males and 10.7 percent of the females. Temporal comparisons indicated consistent levels of hybridization except in southeastern Oklahoma, where red wolf influence is declining.
10.2307/3671305|The gross morphology of the olfactory organ and eye size in 5 genera and 15 species of barbeled cyprinid fishes was analyzed morphometrically. Large size of nostrils and large number of olfactory lamellae are correlated with turbid or silty habitats, whereas smaller nostrils and fewer lamellae are characteristic of clear-water species. There does not appear to be much correlation between the size of the olfactory organ and habitat. No species-specific correlation between eye size and habitat was discerned, and there is no apparent correlation between eye size and extent of development in the olfactory organ.
10.2307/3671306|Presented herein are accounts of 12 species of Naididae and three of Tubificidae now known to occur in western Texas. Dero (D.) pectinata and Pristina americana are new to the North American fauna, having previously been reported only from neotropical regions. Nais communis, N. variabilis, Paranais litoralis, Pristina synclites, and Monopylephorus sp. are new to Texas. Chaetogaster diastrophus, Dero (Aulophorus) furcata, Dero (D.) digitata, Pristina aequiseta, P. leidyi, Slavina appendiculata, Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri, and L. udekemianus are known from elsewhere in the state, but their presence in western Texas considerably extends their known ranges.
10.2307/3670515|One hundred specimens of Pogonias cromis (L.) were taken from four sites along the Texas Gulf coast from 1971 to 1973. These sites included Sabine Pass, Galveston Island, North Padre Island at Corpus Christi, and South Padre Island at Port Isabel. Two new genera of Aspidogasteridae were were found and described: "Texanocotyle pogoniae" and "Laterocotyle padreinsulae." Texanocotyle pogoniae was found in 9% of the fish examined, and Laterocotyle padreinsulae in 27%. A key to the genera of Cotylaspidinae is included.
10.2307/3670516|The number of bird species (breeding and visiting) observed in habitat islands of three vegetation types (beach, terrace, cottonwood) tended to increase with island size, the beach avifauna less rapidly than the others. This difference cannot be ascribed to distance or food-productivity effects; it is likely to be a function of habitat structure but may decrease with time. Between-habitat density compensation was indicated by similar counts of individual birds in all habitat types. Bird species were often added in a regular sequence as island size increased. These data can provide a basis for predicting the impact of habitat modification by man and burros in Grand Canyon National Park and Monument, as well as providing another case study of island biogeography.
10.2307/3670517|Nongeographic and geographic variation in the yellow-cheeked pocket gopher, Pappogeomys castanops, were analyzed in specimens collected in northwestern Texas and eastern New Mexico. Univariate and multivariate methods of analysis were utilized to assess variation in morphometric characters among 12 samples of P. castanops. Because of significant variation with age, only adult specimens were used in analyses. Adult males were significantly larger than females in all 13 characters studied. Our analyses of geographic variation reveal that those specimens previously assigned to the subspecies P. c. simulans are not sufficiently distinct to warrant subspecific designation.
10.2307/3670518|Insects were collected from the foliage and branches of Desert Broom (Baccharis sarothroides Gray) at three locations in southeastern Arizona from mid-July to early September in 1976 and 1977. The interrelationships among 25 species collected from B. sarothroides included taxa involved with mimetic assemblages, predator defense, and concealment. Observational data also are presented on the utilization of B. sarothroides and the behavior of both rare and common species collected concurrently from broom during each visit.
10.2307/3670519|Tests were conducted on 18 Orconectes virilis (Hagen) crayfish, 8 males and 10 females, to determine the effects of a simulated 5 gram radiotracking transmitter on their walking speeds. The results were that an overall decrease was observed. Of the 18 tested crayfish, 11 (3 males and 8 females) showed a significant decrease in speed, while 1 female showed a significant increase in speed.
10.2307/3670520|Gaillardia aestivalis var. winkleri occurs in Hardin County, Texas, as a series of white-flowered populations. It is a tetraploid (n = 34 pairs), tap-rooted, perennial, with slender rhizomes, and is restricted to loose, white sandy soils. The variety does not co-occur with its most closely related taxon, G. a. var. flavovirens nor with the typical var. aestivalis. A map showing the distribution of these several taxa in Texas is presented, along with an account of their major morphological characteristics.
10.2307/3670521|The distribution and effects of the mistletoes Arceuthobium divaricatum Engelm. on Pinus edulis Engelm. and Phoradendron juniperinum Engelm. on Juniperus osteosperma (Torr.) Little on the pinyon-juniper vegetation type on the south rim of Grand Canyon National Park were investigated. Fire was the most limiting factor in the distribution of the mistletoes. The incidence of infection increased as trunk diameter and height increased in both pinyon and juniper. Arceuthobium divaricatum had the more serious impact on its host in respect to both vigor and mortality. Both mistletoes appear to be in equilibrium with their hosts at this time.
10.2307/3670522|Aqueous extracts from leaves of giant ragweed reduced growth in sorghum seedlings, and reduced germination in sorghum and radish. Five phenolic compounds from these extracts were isolated and characterized, but not identified. Germination bioassays using these compounds demonstrated that each of the five depressed germination, and the depression related to concentration. It is suggested that the water-soluble allelochemics from giant ragweed contribute to any interference effect this weed may have on growth of associated species.
10.2307/3670523|Genic similarities between four species of Machaeranthera section Psilactis, as measured by electrophoresis, indicate closer genetic affinities between M. boltoniae (Greene) Turner & Horne and M. mexicana Turner & Horne and between M. tenuis (S. Wats) Turner & Horne and M. brevilingulata (Sch.-Bip) Turner & Horne than for any other interspecific comparison. Intraspecific differentiation patterns within M. boltoniae seem to have been produced by 1) the splitting of one large population into several isolated populations, 2) recent introduction, and 3) possible genetic drift. Polymorphism is low for the four species, ranging from 0.0% in the one population of M. brevilingulata to 40.0% for one population of M. boltoniae. The mean number of alleles per polymorphic gene for each population is also low (1.0-2.05). A possible explanation for this low polymorphism would be a self-fertile breeding system.
10.2307/3670524|Analyses indicate that two subspecies of the chipmunk Eutamias quadrivittatus are recognizable. The widely used name E. q. hopiensis is a synonym of E. q. quadrivittatus. A new name is proposed for the other subspecies. The cliff chipmunk in northwestern Arizona is Eutamias dorsalis grinnelli, not E. d. utahensis. The least chipmunk in eastern Arizona is Eutamias minimus operarius, with E. m. arizonensis a synonym of this subspecies.
10.2307/3670525|Daily gross primary productivity was recorded continuously in Gladfelter Pond from 14 March through 31 June 1977, except for two brief interruptions. Daily gross production averaged 2.57 g C m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> (SD=1.46) during this study. Daily primary productivity exceeded community respiration 21% of the 86 days during which values were recorded. Gross productivity was more highly correlated with surface solar radiation on clear days, r = 0.85, than on partly cloudy to overcast days, r = 0.39.
10.2307/3670526|Nests of honey ants were excavated by large mammals, probably badgers, in a desert-scrub site in southeastern Arizona. The rate of predation was very low. The digging did not destroy whole colonies. Disturbed colonies soon established a new shaft to the surface, and their mortality was not significantly greater than that of undisturbed colonies. Hence, honey ants are a renewable resource for the predator.
10.2307/3671206|The taxon Eutamias bulleri is shown to consist of two parapatric species. The currently recognized subspecies E. b. bulleri is actually a monotypic species, E. bulleri (sensu stricto). Its geographic range is here extended by some 100 km, and it is shown to occur on both sides of the Ro Mesquital, Durango, contrary to previous reports. Its geographic range meets or closely approaches that of the form currently designated as E. b. durangae, but without intergradation of diagnostic characters. Eutamias b. durangae and E. b. solivagus are geographically isolated from one another but appear to be conspecific. Both are closely related to, and probably conspecific with, E. canipes.
10.2307/3671207|Environmental and compositional data from Cupressus arizonica Greene stands are used to establish site preference patterns and community characteristics of C. arizonica. In the absence of direct, continuous soil moisture monitoring, a Topographic Potential Moisture Index (TPMI) is synthesized, based on slope steepness, slope configuration, slope aspect, topographic position, and depth of the soil. This index, founded on hydrological principles, allows quantification of a topographic complex gradient from observable site characteristics. Placement of stands in environmental space (elevation vs. TPMI value) indicates that C. arizonica is not necessarily restricted to moist sites, as other studies have suggested. Rather, the tree expresses compensation in site preferences, with lower elevation stands occupying washes and north-facing canyon slopes, while at higher elevations it can occupy south-facing ridges. Cupressus arizonica is shown to occur in relatively pure, dense groves of smaller trees on most canyon side slopes; the species is relatively less important, and represented by fewer, but larger, individuals in riparian stands. Four ecologic / geographic classes of C. arizonica stands are defined and described.
10.2307/3671208|The macroinvertebrate community and associated environmental parameters of a high mountain stream were studied biweekly during the open season of two consecutive years. Physicochemical parameters were similar both years indicating a cold, clear stream with soft waters, near neutral pH, and sparse algal growth. Aquatic insects comprised approximately 95% of the total macroinvertebrate numbers each year. Similar numbers of taxa were collected in 1975 (48) and 1976 (40). Although there were differences in abundance between years, the predominant organisms were generally the same. Ephemeropterans were by far the most abundant organisms both years. A high degree of sympatry was exhibited by the trichopteran Rhyacophila; six species were collected from a single riffle. A lower mean macroinvertebrate density in 1976 <tex-math>$(774\ \text{org}/\text{m}^{2})$</tex-math> than in 1975 <tex-math>$(1467\ \text{org}/\text{m}^{2})$</tex-math> can be attributed to heavy rainfall resulting in a 400% increase in discharge over a short time period. The differential effect of a short-term flood on the fauna also explains composition differences between years. Coarse particulate organic matter exhibited qualitative differences, lower standing crop values, and earlier seasonal maxima than a similar montane stream in the same drainage basin. Collectors and scrapers were more abundant and shredders much less abundant (and composed of different dominants) than in small eastern woodland streams.
10.2307/3671209|The validity of vicariance in explaining disjunctions in distributions of montane species is substantiated by numerical analyses of the montane mammalian fauna of New Mexico. Regression analyses identify latitude, elevation of the highest peak, and forest area as significant, positive correlates of montane species number. Distance clustering techniques indicate the close correspondence between these variables plus longitude and the specific compositions of montane faunas. Because both species number and species composition are well-described using these data, a vicariant explanation of Pleistocene biogeography in the Southern Rocky Mountains of New Mexico is supported.
10.2307/3671210|The San Rafael River and lower reaches of four major tributaries, Cottonwood, Huntington, Ferron, and Rock Canyon creeks, were sampled for fish and water quality in March-April, June, and October, 1977. Native species of fish included speckled dace (Rhinichthys osculus), flannelmouth suckers (Catostomus latipinnis), bluehead suckers (C. discobolus), and roundtail chubs (Gila robusta). Red shiners (Notropis lutrensis), fathead minnows (Pimephales promelas), black bullheads (Ictalurus melas), and channel catfish (I. punctatus) were recorded introduced species. A single young-of-the-year Colorado squawfish (Ptychocheilus lucius) was caught in the lower San Rafael River in October. This is the first documented record of Colorado squawfish in the San Rafael River. Native fish were dominant at seven stations in the tributary streams and middle section of the San Rafael River and introduced fish dominated the fauna near the mouth of the river.
10.2307/3671211|Patterns of habitat partitioning and spatial overlap are documented for the fishes of an environmentally unstable southwestern river. Notropis lutrensis (red shiner), Notropis girardi (Arkansas River shiner), Hybognathus placitus (plains minnow), and Gambusia affinis (mosquitofish) numerically dominated the fish fauna; few centrarchids or other large species were present. While the dominant species showed some spatial segregation at most times, their habitat use was transitory, changing as environmental conditions changed. The dominant species made wide use of the available habitat during mild environmental conditions and constricted habitat use when physico-chemical conditions were potentially stressful. Species associations were also transitory; no species pairs consistently exhibited strong spatial overlap. Habitat partitioning thus appears less structured in this stream than in more stable environments that have been studied. The fish fauna was characterized by ecologic plasticity, with the most successful species showing marked habitat flexibility.
10.2307/3671212|Populations of small mammals were assessed in six major habitat types (moderately and heavily grazed grasslands, lowland and upland forests, cropland, and prairie relic) in north-central Oklahoma using four grids of live traps and 26 traplines. Animals were sampled during March, May, and August of 1975, with a total of 23,280 trap-nights in the grid analysis and 1,699 on the lines. Five to eight species were captured in both the grassland and woodland habitats. Population densities were higher in March than in May or August. For the moderately grazed grassland, total small mammal density in March was 8.4 animals/ha, with deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) predominant (3.2/ha); total density in May was 4.2/ha (deer mice, 0.7); and 0.9 (no deer mice) in August. Comparable values for the heavily grazed grassland were: March, 8.8/ha (6.4); May, 4.8 (1.2); and August, 5.9 (1.5). Densities in the lowland forest were considerably higher and white-footed mice (P. leucopus) were most abundant. Total densities (and those for white-footed mice) were: March, 35.4/ha (34.5); May, 20.6 (18.1); and August, 20.8 (13.6). Estimates for the upland forest were: March, 24.3/ha (23.4); May, 14.8 (9.7); and August, 13.7 (18.9). Species composition in the prairie relic was similar to that for the other grasslands. White-footed mice and hispid cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus) were the most common forms in croplands. Survivorship, as indicated by recapture in subsequent sampling periods, was higher for white-footed mice than for deer mice. Apparently prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster), which were found in relatively low numbers, do not exhibit marked population cycles on the site, while white-footed and deer mice undergo substantial population fluctuations. Species with western continental distributions were restricted to grasslands, while eastern forms were found primarily in the wooded areas of the study site.
10.2307/3671213|Recent collections of Cyprinodon eximius from Devil's River, the first in 10 years, have dispelled reports of its extinction there. However, populational status is precarious due to severe habitat loss and range restriction. Distributional data and ongoing morphological observations suggest that two allopatric populations once inhabited the river. A population that once occurred above Dolan Falls is now extinct, apparently a victim of a series of catastrophic events in the mid-1950's. A second population originally inhabited lower Devil's River and an immediately adjacent portion of the Rio Grande, but the filling of Amistad Reservoir in 1968 inundated over 75% of that reach. Now, only a remnant of the second population survives, restricted to a 10.9 km reach above Amistad Reservoir.
10.2307/3671214|Interchernes clarkorum, new genus and new species, is described from specimens found on a Yucca sp. in Baja California, Mexico. This form is unusual among pseudoscorpions in having a protuberance on the inside of the chelal hand in both male and female. The relations of the new genus to several other chernetid genera are discussed.
10.2307/3671215|Solpugids were identified, sexed, and marked with flourescent paint during daylight field sessions. At this time, burrow structure also was described. At night, marked individuals were followed by the use of an ultraviolet lamp. Position within a 0.1 ha grid was noted as well as whether the burrow was re-occupied by the same individual on succeeding days. Males were found to re-use the burrow for periods of at least 3 days after construction. We interpret this behavior to mean that males choose a temporary foraging area to make up for the lose of energy spent in burrow construction. We also suggest that females may abandon this practice during a breeding period. Additionally, we note observations on the potential impact of silverfish (Thysanura) as solpugid predators.
10.2307/3671235|A 3-year study comparing solpugid populations (sampled by can traps) of a creosotebush thicket with those of a mesquite-soapweed-joint-fir plant association was conducted. Populations were significantly lower in the creosotebush thicket than in the mixed-plant association in 2 out of 3 years and on a total basis. Although seven species were collected in the thicket as opposed to five in the association, the thicket species were different from those in the arid grasslands, whereas those in the association were the same as those in the grasslands. Muma (1973) obtained similar results with Florida ground-surface spiders in single- vs. mixed-plant associations.
10.2307/3671236|Mean macrobenthic diversities were depressed between El Paso and the Ro Conchos confluence (< 1.3) due to the predominance of fine sediments, physicochemical instability promoted by variable sources and volume of flow, and the impact of municipal effluents. Mean diversities were higher between the Ro Conchos confluence and La Linda (1.8-2.4), the increase from upstream reflecting greater habitat diversity due to a more complex substratum and higher physicochemical stability and improved water quality resulting from Ro Conchos inflow. Mean diversities were high below La Linda (2.9-3.4) as a result of high water quality, further increased physicochemical stability, the highly complex substratum, and the physiographic and biotic diversity of the region and existence of tributaries which promoted recruitment of peripheral species.
10.2307/3671237|Pogonomyrmex montanus (Formicidae: Myrmicinae) is described from specimens collected 18 Aug. 1978, 4 km NW Fawnskin, San Bernardino Co., California, at an altitude of 3,000 m. Pogonomyrmex montanus is most closely related to P. salinus, but may be easily distinguished by the shape of the superior lobe of the scape. Characters are given to distinguish it from other members of the occidentalis complex. The males are dimorphic in size. Most species in the genus Pogonomyrmex occur at lower elevations in hot dry habitats; they are typically desert or prairie ants. This species is unusual in that it occurs at high altitudes in pine forests.
10.2307/3671238|Systematics, distribution, and habitat of Glaucomys volans in Mexico and Central America are assessed. Four subspecies are recognized, one of which is here described, and three others are placed in synonomy. Glaucomys v. oaxacensis of central Oaxaca differs markedly from G. v. goldmani of adjacent Chiapas. The presence of Glaucomys volans in Chihuahua is regarded as unverified. Specimens reputedly from there, and referred to G. v. madrensis, are much like those from Oaxaca. Glaucomys volans occurs primarily in oak or pine-oak habitat; this habitat in Mexico, Guatemala, and Honduras is usually available above 800 m, whereas comparable habitat in the United States is primarily below 800 m.
10.2307/3671239|Breeding bird populations were studied in a creosotebush community of the northern Mojave Desert in Rock Valley, Nevada, between 1971 and 1973. Two species bred in the dry years (1971, 1972) and five species in the exceptionally wet year (1973). Larger clutches were laid in 1973. The paucity of breeding species was associated with a structurally simple desert community of low productivity. Densities of breeding pairs (46-80/100 ha) were intermediate to densities recorded in other desert scrub environments. The regular breeders--LeConte's Thrasher (Toxostoma lecontei) and Black-throated Sparrow (Amphispiza bilineata)--exhibited high breeding densities (3/100 ha and 43-61/100 ha, respectively) compared to other localities within their breeding ranges.
10.2307/3671240|Extrafloral nectaries were observed on the cactus Ferocactus gracilis Gates in the Central Desert of Baja California, Mexico. Eleven species of ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) were collecting the secretions of these nectaries, and two 24-hour observations showed their diel activity correlating with soil and cactus temperatures, as well as photoperiod. Crematogaster depilis Wheeler, Iridomyrmex pruinosum analis (Andre), Camponotus ocreatus Emery, and Pheidole grallipes Wheeler were frequent visitors. Conomyrma insana (Buckley), Myrmecocystus mimicus Wheeler, Pheidole sp. nov., Monomorium viridum peninsulatum Gregg, Solenopsis xyloni McCook, Xiphomyrmex spinosus hispidus Wheeler, and Brachymyrmex depilis Emery showed less regularity during observations. The plant-sucking bug Narnia wilsonii Van Duzee (Hemiptera: Coreidae) was also commonly found on F. gracilis.
10.2307/3671241|A new subspecies endemic to the Guadalupe Mountains of western Texas and adjacent New Mexico is described taxonomically. It is compared morphologically to related subspecies of C. nauseosus; data from vegetative and floral anatomy and cytology are included. Floral venation and abundance of secretory tissue suggest this subspecies comes from relatively primitive stock. Other aspects of floral structure suggest adaptation to autogamy and loss of dispersibility--both apparently related to its unique biogeographic setting.
10.2307/3671242|Floodplain plant communities were sampled at 13 sites along Wildhorse and Rush creeks in south-central Oklahoma. Ulmus americana, Salix nigra, Tamarax gallica, Salix interior, Populus deltoides, Amorpha fruticosa, Parthenocissus quinquefolia, Rhus radicans, Cynodon dactylon, Ambrosia trifida, and Bromus japonicus were important species of communities which occurred in stream channels. Celtis sp., U. americana, Sapindus drummondii, Acer negundo, Symphoricarpos orbiculatus, P. quinquefolia, Smilax bona-nox, Vitis spp.. Elymus virginicus, and Sanicula canadensis were important species of bottomland forest communities which occurred adjacent to stream channels. The composition of bottomland forests was similar to that reported by Rice (1965) for bottomland forests of north-central Oklahoma. A large majority of the forests along Wildhorse and Rush creeks have been destroyed and replaced by agricultural communities which are of little value to wildlife species. If present trends continue, it is likely that all significant stands of bottomland forests will be eliminated from these streams in the near future.
10.2307/3671243|Field measurements are presented which quantify the extent of surface area covered by pocket gopher mounds and the effects of gopher mound microrelief on local plant production and on local rates of infiltration of rainfall and evaporation of soil water. The percentage of total surface area covered was 8% on a heavily grazed grid, 2.5% on a lightly grazed grid, and 6.5% on an ungrazed grid. The relationship between surface area covered in m<sup>2</sup> and kg of soil in mounds was linear. Density of above-ground vegetation decreased significantly with increasing distance from the edge of mounds up to a distance of 40 cm. Rates of infiltration of rainfall were significantly higher on mounds than on undisturbed areas, but average volumetric soil water content was not significantly different between mounds and undisturbed areas.
10.2307/3671244|Eggshell thickness, levels of pollutant residues, and population status of the white-faced ibis (Plegadis chihi) were monitored in Texas from 1969 through 1976. Texas ibis nesting populations declined by 42%. Reproductive success apparently was limited by DDE-induced shell thinning and by dieldrin-caused mortality. Eggshells averaged 4% to 10% thinner than the pre-1943 mean thickness. Shells of numerous crushed eggs exceeded 20% thinning. Mean DDE residues in randomly collected eggs decreased from 0.94 ppm in 1970 to 0.25 ppm in 1976. DDE was higher, averaging 2.5 ppm, in thin-shelled eggs. DDE was negatively correlated with shell thickness. Dieldrin and PCB residues increased slightly from 1970 to 1976, but neither was correlated significantly with shell thickness. Residues in brains of many dead and dying ibises collected during years of extreme reproductive failure, 1970 and 1973, contained between 5 and 25 ppm dieldrin. Ibises were exposed to aldrin and dieldrin by feeding in rice fields where aldrin-treated rice seed was planted. Improved nesting success in 1976 may have been related to declining residues of DDE and to the discontinued use of aldrin in rice fields.
10.2307/3671245|A 2 year study (1976-1977) of benthic macroinvertebrates of the Pecos River in western Texas was conducted. Diversity was influenced by season and year, station, and various environmental parameters. Diversity was depressed in the upper reach by high salinity and extreme physiochemical fluctuations, but increased in the lower reach due to freshwater inflow and overall improvement in water quality. Coastal saltwater organisms occurred in the upper reach.
10.2307/3670685|Field measurements of predawn and afternoon water potentials and transpiration rates of two species of deciduous oaks (Quercus velutina Lam. and Q. marilandica Muerchh.) were obtained throughout the growing season. These data were compared in an attempt to explain the difference in the species' geographic distributions. Predawn and afternoon water potentials and transpiration rates of both species generally decreased throughout the season. Late in the season, Q. velutina consistently exhibited lower water potentials and higher transpiration rates than Q. marilandica. There was a strong relationship between average monthly water potential and total monthly precipitation. Experiments with laboratory-grown seedlings of both species were conducted to assess seedling water potential, soil water potential, transpiration rates, and leaf diffusive resistance. These experiments showed that seedlings of Q. velutina were more sensitive to dry conditions than those of Q. marilandica as Q. velutina exhibited lower water potentials at higher soil water potentials. Quercus velutina seedlings also responded to moderate stress with rapid stomatal closure which could contribute to the exclusion of this species from drier areas such as western Oklahoma.
10.2307/3670686|Aggie Pond is a 0.079-hectare, eutrophic desert pond on the campus of New Mexico State University. The green sunfish, Lepomis cyanellus Rafinesque, forms the dominant population among 13 species of fishes which have been introduced into the pond since 1969. Growth of green sunfish is slow and fish are stunted, reaching a total length of 95 mm and a weight of 15 g in Age Group VI. The length-weight relationship is log W = log a + n log L = -5.48040 + 3.356 log L. Expansion of a Schanbel estimate of 4,077 fish in Age Groups II-IV and VI revealed that N<sub>t</sub> varies from 3,595,116 fish to 115,991 fish during the year. Mean standing crop biomass is 132.8 kg. The population curve and the length-weight curve were integrated to compute estimates of live-weight biomass production of green sunfish in each age group during 0.1-year intervals. Total annual production is 60.3 kg with a ratio of production to standing crop biomass of 0.45 or 45%. Production of 76.3 g/m<sup>2</sup>/yr and 58 kg/Ml/yr are the highest rates reported to date. Immature fishes in Age Group 0 and I account for 93% of the biomass produced. The high rate of production is a result of eutrophic conditions, minimal competition and predation, feeding at a low, efficient trophic level, and an extremely abundant food supply caused by abundant energy, nutrients, and hardness salts.
10.2307/3670687|The phytogeographic affinities of the native flora of South Padre Island, Texas, are analyzed and the probable dispersal agent(s) for each species identified. The native flora consists of 99 species and 44% of the species also occur on the adjacent Texas mainland; 28% of the native species have tropical affinities. Only three species have probably dispersed from the island to the mainland. Two species may be endemic to Padre Island and the Tamaulipan barrier islands. Most of the tropical species have reached the island by oceanic drift, but birds are the most important dispersal agent for the native species. Man is responsible for the introduction of 117 species.
10.2307/3670688|This study catalogues the vascular plants of Little Sahara State Park in Woods County, Oklahoma. A total of 181 species in 55 families is listed. Abundance, ecological distribution, and flowering time for each species is noted. Two families, Asteraceae and Poaceae, contain more than one-third of all species present. Floristically, Little Sahara is much more similar to the dune areas to the southwest than those to the northwest even though it is geographically closer to the northwest dune areas.
10.2307/3670689|The allometric growth patterns as determined by size measurements of two subpopulations of saguaro, Carnegiea gigantea, were studied at the extremes of a local moisture gradient. The major difference between the two subpopulations was the lack of branching of individuals on the more moisture-stressed slopes. The branching habit appears to be an adaptation to increase the reproductive potential of those saguaros occupying the less moisture-stressed end of the gradient (on the flats), while the non-branching habit of those individuals on the slopes represents an adaptation to reduce cuticular and transpirational water losses and increase individual survivorship by a reduction in stem surface area. Some other morphological differences are described for saguaros and are interpreted as structures to reduce heat load and further reduce water loss.
10.2307/3670690|Zoospore induction, morphology, and movement were compared in nine cultures of Fritschiella tuberosa Iyengar collected worldwide. Submerging this terrestrial alga in soil water medium induced zoospore release during the following light period. Zoospores were produced one per cell in all photosynthetic parts of the thallus. Zoospores were anteriorly quadriflagellate and, although lacking eyespots, they exhibited positive phototaxis. Zoospores varied from 4.4 to 13.1 m in diameter. Within each culture the sizes formed a normal distribution. All nine cultures had been designated as Fritschiella tuberosa by their respective isolators. The uniformity found in zoospore behavior and morphology supported these identifications.
10.2307/3670691|It is suggested that the combined effects of nurse tree establishment followed by competitive pressure could lead to oscillatory behavior at the population level between saguaros and paloverde trees. Census data are presented which suggest that these effects may be occurring.
10.2307/3670692|Fossil packrat middens with well-preserved plant remains from Rocky Arroyo and Last Chance Canyon, Eddy Co., New Mexico, record a juniperoak community in the early Holocene (10,500 to 10,000 radiocarbon years ago). Midden samples also record relatively stable desert-grassland/desert-scrub communities with some juniper and oak for the last 4000 years. Grassland was probably present on the gentle divides between incised canyons at most times.
10.2307/3670693|Diadasia bituberculata, a gregariously nesting bee, builds earthen entrance tubes (turrets) onto its subterranean nest burrows. Turrets are here shown to function in preventing infilling of burrows by dirt or debris. Both turret design and orientation are important in this context. Selection pressures promoting the construction of turrets by bees probably are related to gregarious behavior, which concentrates excavation and nesting activities in a limited area.
10.2307/3670694|High macrobenthic diversity, comparable to that observed in other non-impacted streams of the region, was promoted by excellent water quality, physicochemical stability, the complex substratum, and the geographical location of lower Devil's River. The species assemblage contained elements of the Balconian, Chihuahuan, and Tamaulipan biotic provinces and included several taxa not found in nearby streams.
10.2307/3670695|Growth, diet, and fecundity of Clear Lake hitch (Lavinia exilicauda chi) were investigated to see if any changes had taken place following the establishment of a large population of Mississippi silversides (Menidia audens) in the lake. No changes were found. Hitch seem to avoid competing with silversides for zooplankton by being limnetic in all except the early life history stages. Fecundity was found to be higher than that of Beardsley Reservoir hitch, but considerably lower than a previous estimate had indicated.
10.2307/3670696|Stomach contents, length-weight relationships, larval transformation, and intestinal parasites from 59 larval tiger salamanders (Ambystoma tigrinum mavortium) collected in the Oklahoma Panhandle are discussed.
10.2307/3670697|Gulf cordgrass (Spartina spartinae [Trin.] Hitchc.) forms highly productive, almost pure stands at elevations intermediate between the hydric associations of lowland marshes and the upland plant communities on the Coastal Prairie. Whereas species composition shifts seasonally in the upland communities and with season and inundation in the marshes, vegetation of established gulf cordgrass stands is relatively static. Presence of gulf cordgrass stands on the Welder Wildlife Foundation was apparently not related to chemical or physical soil properties including texture, saturation percentage, base saturation, exchangeable hydrogen, or salinity.
10.2307/3670698|Plant development was studied in 10 artificial ponds containing phosphorus-enriched sediments--a clay material and a sandy loam. From 1975 to 1977 the flora consisted of both submersed vascular plants and algae. During 1975 the ponds were overgrown with macrophytes, and plankton populations were low. In 1976 and 1977 plankton blooms were common. Dominant macrophytes were Najas guadalupensis (Spreng.) Morong and Potamogeton sp. Algal members of Chlorophyceae, Myxophyceae, Euglenophyceae, and Bacillariophyceae were abundant as communities of plankton, surface scums, wall growth, and epiphytes. Initially, sediments provided nutrients, but as the pond ecosystems developed, nutrients were recycled from plant material. The results of this study are discussed with respect to interactions among different plant communities and nutrients.
10.2307/3670843|In southern Arizona, the western coral bean, Erythrina flabelliformis Kearney, reaches its northernmost limit of distribution in isolated mountain ranges where it apparently is restricted to stream channels and areas immediately adjacent to rock outcrops. To ascertain the relationship between the species and outcrops, the germination requirements, phenology, and water relations of E. flabelliformis were studied at Molino Basin in the Santa Catalina Mountains of southern Arizona. Measurements of soil temperature and soil water potential were made to relate the species' biology and distributional pattern to the physical environment. The seeds were found to germinate best when buried and placed under temperature regimes typical of the study site from March to October. Flowering and leaf initiation occurred just prior to the summer monsoons in early July, and leaf growth increased dramatically with the first rains. Plants of E. flabelliformis growing in stream beds flowered more and underwent leaf senescence later than did poorly watered individuals. Measurements of leaf water potential and osmotic potential indicate that this species is mesophytic in character as opposed to Haplopappus laricifolius Gray, a co-occurring xerophyte not restricted to outcrops. Data on soil water potentials suggest that areas immediately adjacent to the outcrops have greater soil moisture than areas away from the outcrops. Soil temperature gradients were discernible and may result in reduced soil water loss near outcrops. Restriction of E. flabelliformis to the outcrop habitat is partially explained by the more favorable conditions for seed burial and germination and by the improved soil water relations due to greater runoff, shading, and soil temperature stability provided by the outcrops.
10.2307/3670844|Benthic sampling was conducted year-round over a 2 year period (July 1975-June 1977) on Trout Creek, a mountain stream in northwestern Colorado, to assess the effects of coal mine drainage on the stream insect community. Samples were taken monthly from rubble riffles above and below drainage from unreclaimed mine spoils. Unexpectedly, aquatic insects exhibited similar mean density and biomass values at each site and accounted for at least 95% of the total benthic standing crop above and below the mine. The number of insect taxa was similar and diversity index values did not vary significantly between sites. However, the community structure of the two sites did differ. Certain taxa were most abundant at the upstream site (Prostoia besametsa and Lepidostoma moneka), while others were more abundant at the downstream location (Agapetus boulderensis, Glossosoma ventrale, and Hydropsyche spp.). The greatest difference between the two sites was the differential importance of Trichoptera. At the upper site, caddisflies accounted for 39% of the benthic density due to the abundance of four families (Lepidostomatidae, Glossosomatidae, Brachycentridae, and Hydroptilidae). Trichopterans accounted for 60% of the benthic density below the mine, due primarily to the abundance of Hydropsychidae, and especially Glossosomatidae. This study points to the importance of community structure analysis in assessing effects of changes in environmental conditions in stream systems.
10.2307/3670845|A 4-year study of time budgets, foraging behavior, and winter territoriality of Townsend's Solitaire (Myadestes townsendi) indicates that territoriality is not obligate, but facultative; the birds were territorial 3 of the 4 years. The presence or absence of territoriality is dependent upon the interaction of competition, food abundance, and metabolic requisites. Territoriality exists only where the net gain of energy by a territorial bird is greater than if the bird were nonterritorial.
10.2307/3670846|During a survey of freshwater flatworms in Arizona, three species of planarians were recorded from a total of 15 sites. One species, Dugesia dorotocephala, was by far the most common, being found at 13 localities. The other two flatworms, Dugesia arizonensis and Polycelis sp., were each collected from a single site. In no instance was the co-occurrence of two or more species observed at any one locality. The two species of Dugesia may be difficult to distinguish without detailed examination of the reproductive morphology but can be easily separated on the basis of chromosome number. In Dugesia dorotocephala, a correlation was observed between the variability of the thermal regimes of the aquatic habitats and the frequency of sexual reproduction. This is discussed in the context of the many forms of sexual and asexual reproduction exhibited by freshwater flatworms.
10.2307/3670847|A seasonal survey of D. pseudoobscura was made in a northern population at Saltillo to establish variation in the third chromosome gene arrangement frequencies. Changes during the collecting period were compared with those of nearby populations. The unique predominance of PP, TL, and OL inversions in this population and the occurrence of other rare chromosomes, including their geographic pattern, are discussed. The discovery of a new inversion, Los Lirios (LL), is announced.
10.2307/3670848|Crenichthys baileyi (Gilbert) is endemic to a series of isolated springs along the approximately 325 km pluvial White River system of southeastern Nevada. The preference of Crenichthys for spring habitats and the drying of the pluvial White River have resulted in isolation of various populations in the remaining spring habitats. Geographic isolation coupled with the environmental diversity that prevails among the spring habitats caused considerable morphological divergence among several spring populations. Taxonomic analyses indicate that several populations are distinct, and are herein described as new subspecies. Five subspecies of the formerly monotypic C. baileyi are described. One population of C. baileyi has been extirpated and others are endangered by loss of habitat through introductions of exotic fish species and physical alterations.
10.2307/3670849|American hipparions are small to medium-sized horses with tridactyl feet and protocones of the upper cheek teeth usually isolated. Clarendonian genera include: Hipparion, Neohipparion, Cormohipparion, Nannippus, and possibly Pseudhipparion. By medial and late Hemphillian time, American genera included only Nannippus and a newly described genus, Hesperohipparion. Five Hemphillian species previously placed in Neohipparion are removed to Hesperohipparion and a new species, H. stirtoni, is described from the Coffee Ranch local fauna of Texas.
10.2307/3670850| Roe from alligator gar, longnose gar, and spotted gar was shown to be lethal to crayfish. No mortality was observed in bluegill sunfish fed alligator gar roe. Percent mortality in crayfish was greater after feeding on alligator gar roe (100%) then on roe of longnose gar (77%) or spotted gar (38%). Roe protein extracts injected into the cephalothorax showed the same species sequence in the calculated LD
10.2307/3670851|One adult Diplocentrus spitzeri female gave birth to nine young over a period of about 56 hours. Behavioral and chronological observations on parturition in this species are reported, the first for a member of the subfamily Diplocentrinae. Factors influencing litter size in diplocentrid scorpions are analyzed: female size and size of young account for 81% of the variability in litter size recorded among 12 observations representing seven taxa. Growth rates recorded from a molt in the laboratory are used to predict some life history statistics in D. spitzeri; it is hypothesized that this species attains sexual maturity with the sixth instar.
10.2307/3670852|Responses of red shiners, Notropis lutrensis, to water conditioned by the presence of conspecifics were evaluated in laboratory preference chambers. Fish from the South Canadian River (Arkansas River drainage) and Lake Texoma (Red River drainage), tested under different conditions at different times of year, all exhibited a strong attraction to water previously occupied by conspecifics. Olfaction as a cue to habitat selection is discussed with respect to the known ecology of the species.
10.2307/3670853|Variation in kangaroo rat (Dipodomys) bacula was evaluated using 124 specimens collected from 11 localities in Baja California, Mexico. There was significant interlocality variation in the three characters analyzed. Populations of D. gravipes were readily separable from D. agilis on the basis of bacular length. Comparisons of similarity matrices based upon bacular characters with those of various sets of skin and skeletal characters yielded highest correlations with post-cranial skeletal characters. Bacular length had a significant linear correlation with body length.
10.2307/3670854|Cyprinodon pecosensis is omnivorous, with a diatom-detritus mixture comprising the bulk of the diet. Other important dietary items include benthic animals, filamentous algae, macrophytes, sand, and seeds. Sex, gut length, and habitat contribute to dietary differences among individual fish. The ability of C. pecosensis to subsist on a variety of foods is highly advantageous for survival in harsh, desert environments.
10.2307/3670855|Mating behavior in the Streptocephalus fairy shrimps consists of the following behavior patterns: detection and orientation, station taking, clasping, intromission, and disengagement. Since males have low parental investment in their offspring and since males must compete for receptive females, sexual selection should favor males which mate with undiscriminating eagerness. While observations reported here generally support this prediction, males discriminate against clearly unsuitable mates both before and during station-taking. Females should choose their mates carefully, based on some quality related to male fitness, since each clutch of eggs represents a large parental investment, but the criteria used by females in mate choice remain obscure.
10.2307/3670856|The benthic macroinvertebrate community of a sandy plains stream was observed following a toxic chemical discharge in August 1975. A seasonal survey was made of both the area affected by the toxic discharge and an upstream control area in order to determine the recovery time of the benthic fauna. Organisms began to reappear 2 to 3 weeks after the discharge, probably as a result of downstream movement. Diptera (Chironomidae) were early colonizers and occurred in substantially greater numbers in the affected area than the upstream control area. The number of organisms was highly variable throughout the year because of adult emergence, the hatching of young insects, scouring, and stream modification caused by the construction of a temporary earthen dam across the stream. Recovery of the benthic community occurred within 7 to 9 months after the toxic discharge.
10.2307/3671322|Twenty-three species and varieties of Amanita and one species of Limacella are reported from collections of members of the Family Amanitaceae (Order Agaricales) from three units of the Big Thicket National Preserve and adjoining portions of Southeast Texas.
10.2307/3671323|Myrmecochory, a mode of dispersal rarely reported in the Compositae, is documented in Wedelia hispida HBK. Plants over the whole range of the species usually produce a small elaiosome on both sides of the base of each ray and disc achene. In Travis Co., Texas, three species of ants, Solenopsis geminata Fabricius, Pheidole dentata Mayr, and Pheidole crassicornis Emery ssp. tetra (Wheeler) Creighton, selectively transport Wedelia achenes in preference to achenes of other local Compositae which lack elaiosomes. This is the second native North American species of Compositae reported to be myrmecochorous. Elaiosomes also have been discovered on the achenes of numerous other species of Wedelia (and Aspilia).
10.2307/3671324|Data from long-term chart quadrats recorded from the Jornada Experimental Range in south-central New Mexico were used to develop demographic measurements for black grama and mesa dropseed. These measurements included mean and maximum lifespans, survival probabilities, and rates of establishment and were used to derive the stable age structure for black grama. They were combined with factors such as climate and grazing in a model designed to simulate the long-term dynamics of a stable perennial grassland. Using the stable age structure as a starting point, the model was perturbed by differentially lowering the age-specific survival rates in an effort to mimic the effect of mesquite competition. A stable age structure for black grama was achieved after a period of 40 years. A similar structure for mesa dropseed could not be derived. Output of the model run over a 47-year period in the absence of mesquite shows that stability of numbers in each class can be achieved over the entire time period. Grazing does not appear to disrupt this stability, but only decreases the number of plants established each year. Simulation of increased mesquite competition showed that in the first 12 years there may be a concomitant decline in the number of new individuals. By the 25th year, the survival rates for all but the oldest individuals have been adversely affected and there are few individuals alive.
10.2307/3671325|Audio spectrographic and oscillographic analysis of vocalizations by 13 captive ringtails (Procyonidae) from Llano Co., Texas, indicated a well differentiated repertoire. Single-pulsed aggressive sounds, including growls (180 Hz) and barks (140-400 Hz), often were associated with snapping at the observer. Extreme stress, produced by firmly holding an animal or approaching an animal in a livetrap, sometimes elicited a very loud, wavering scream or howl (1.5 to 2.6 kHz). Homotypical rhythmic sequences, involving apparent social tolerance, included the whistlegrunt (4 to 5 kHz and 180 Hz respectively), chitter by a subadult (7 kHz), and mewing by older nursing young (600 to 1400 Hz). The female estrous call superficially resembled the subadult chitter, but at half the acoustical frequency and number of pulses per s.
10.2307/3671326|Diel feeding chronologies in two desert fishes, Agosia chrysogaster (longfin dace) and Pantosteus clarki (Gila mountain sucker), were determined by examining the foregut contents of fishes taken from Sycamore Creek, Maricopa Co., Arizona. A comparison of algae in foreguts with algae collected from the stream suggests that these species have distinct feeding chronologies and foraging areas. Pantosteus clarki consumes benthic diatoms and small amounts of detritus while A. chrysogaster feeds on filamentous green algae, benthic and epiphytic diatoms, and detritus. Peaks of ingested food volume indicate that A. chrysogaster is a diurnal feeder whereas P. clarki feeds both day and night, with crepuscular peaks.
10.2307/3671327|Inland heronries in Texas used by African Cattle Egrets (Ardeola [= Bubulcus] ibis ibis) always contain Little Blue Herons (Hydranassa caerulea) and Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula). Inland breeding distribution and timing of the breeding season of the latter two species probably are determined in Texas by the availability of crayfish which compose about 73% of the diet for Little Blue Heron young and 39% for Snowy Egret young. Inland distribution of Cattle Egrets in Texas appears to be determined by the locations of heronries that have been established or re-established by native species, primarily Little Blue Herons and Snowy Egrets. There is no apparent relationship between distribution and density of grazing cattle and the breeding range of Cattle Egrets or distribution of heronries in which they breed, nor is there any apparent relationship between the breeding range of these egrets and maximum availability of grasshoppers and crickets which increases westward.
10.2307/3671328|Museum samples of prairie dogs (Cynomys) collected between 1890 and 1971 show a pattern of increasing sexual dimorphism through time. Recent populations have a larger proportion of significantly dimorphic traits. Increasing size dimorphism, as estimated by cranial length, appears to be the result of greater size increases among males. Two hypotheses, both implicating human disturbance, are presented to explain the phenomenon: (1) increased competition for females (i.e., sexual selection) arising from changes in population structure and (2) differential growth of the sexes in response to changing vegetation and hence dietary regimes.
10.2307/3671329|A method to estimate better the winter sex ratios of buffleheads (Bucephala albeola) is proposed that accounts for the similar plumages of juvenile birds in the population. The field sex ratios for buffleheads wintering on the Laguna Madre averaged 54.6% males but was 69.5% males when corrected.
10.2307/3671330|Small mammal associations were sampled in six habitats on the central High Plains of eastern Colorado. The habitats consisted of grazed and ungrazed riparian woodland, sand sagebrush, and shortgrass. Ordination analysis revealed that grazing had the least effect on small mammal associations in shortgrass and the greatest effect on associations in riparian woodland. Moreover, grazed sand sagebrush supports a mammalian fauna more nearly like that of shortgrass than that of ungrazed sand sagebrush. These observations on the effects of grazing are interpreted in terms of understory vegetation.
10.2307/3671331|The response of American Coots (Fulica americana) to habitat alteration, including partial and complete drawdown, burning and reflooding, and complete removal of emergents, was studied on a Colorado marsh. Use of the marsh during spring migration was not affected until low water levels exposed emergents. Number of nests decreased from 77 to six following alteration, but increased (56) after reflooding. Alteration also resulted in a delay of 5 to 6 weeks in nesting and movement by coots from and to the marsh in response to loss or gain in preferred foods. Increases in aquatic foods after alteration extended fall migration use. Coot populations can be managed easily through habitat manipulation.
10.2307/3671104|This study examines winter abundance patterns of three groups of song birds across the south-central United States--the phoebes (Sayornis), thrashers (Toxostoma and Oreoscoptes), and bluebirds (Sialia). The analysis was done on 15 years of National Audubon Society Christmas Bird Count data that were collected in an area encompassing most of Texas, Oklahoma, and part of New Mexico. There was no statistically significant east-west variation in group abundances, but a transition from eastern to western forms within each group occurred between the 98th and 102nd meridians, and the transition was abrupt. A significant biogeographic boundary appears to exist within two degrees on either side of the 100th meridian.
10.2307/3671105|A stomach flushing technique, originally developed for turtles and recently adapted to lizards, is evaluated with respect to five species of desert lizards. The procedure effectively provides stomach contents for subsequent analysis. Body size and sex appear to have little influence upon its effectiveness. Although species differences sometimes lower flushing success, familiarity with the technique appears to reduce the effects of these differences. Mortality from stomach flushing is low (< 4% overall).
10.2307/3671106|Lizard populations sampled on heavily grazed chaparral, desert grassland, mixed riparian scrub, and cottonwood-willow vegetative communities were characterized by lower relative abundance and species diversity indices than those of similar, lightly grazed sites. Lower relative abundance and diversity at heavily grazed sites were a result of vegetative structures that favored lizards who forage while roosting on trees, downed tree limbs, or under trees. Lightly grazed sites were characterized by vegetative structures that favored a wide variety of foraging styles. There were no differences in lizard abundance and diversity between lightly and heavily grazed Sonoran Desertscrub. Similarities in lizard abundance and diversity of lightly and heavily grazed Sonoran Desertscrub were attributed to similarities in vegetative structure.
10.2307/3671107|Natural vegetation of the foredune complex of coastal barrier islands is an important factor in sand stabilization. Sea oats (Uniola paniculata), a dominant grass on fore-dunes, traps and accumulates fresh beach sand to provide a natural barrier against storm-generated waves. Sea oats relies on salt spray, accumulating fresh beach sand, and decaying organic matter for mineral nutrition. The objective of this study was to investigate sea oats at three natural dune locations, identifying vegetative characteristics that would relate to differences in vigor, and to compare natural dunes with fertilized, sprigged stands planted in an island nursery and on the beach in an overwash area of the main dune line. For the natural dune locations, the fore-dune complex was divided into fore-dune, mid-dune, and hind-dune areas. The growth form of sea oats on the fore-dune was that of a single culm, while several culms emerged from each crown on the mid-and hind-dune areas. Dry weight per culm and flowering culm weight (dry wt/culm by number of flowering culms/plant) were considered the most important variables in determining plant vigor. Based on these measurements there were no differences in vigor among fore-dune, mid-dune, and hind-dune plants. However, fertilized sea oats in the beach planting and in the island nursery were more vigorous than those growing in the natural, unfertilized dunes.
10.2307/3671108|A comparison of the G- and C-banded chromosomes from Onychomys torridus torridus to those of other known karyotypic forms of peromyscine rodents results in a revision of the proposed primitive karyotype for the genus Onychomys. The primitive karyotype for Onychomys probably contained five pairs of biarmed autosomes with euchromatic short arms and 17 pairs of acrocentric autosomes. Morphology of one pair is uncertain; however, it was either biarmed with a heterochromatic short arm or acrocentric. If the primitive karyotype is as hypothesized and currently accepted systematic arrangements are correct, many convergent heterochromatic short arm additions or deletions must have occurred during the evolution of the cytotypes of Onychomys in order to explain their distribution in living taxa. Although the respective fundamental numbers of O. t. torridus and O. arenicola differ by two, G- and C-band data reveal that as many as 15 hererochromatic short arm differences may distinguish the two karyotypes.
10.2307/3671109|The nectars of two species of shrubs, Ribes pinetorum and Chilopsis linearis, were limited food resources that were utilized by both hummingbirds and insects. Both shrub species had bimodal patterns of daily nectar secretion with peaks in morning and afternoon. Ribes pinet-orum, blooming at high altitude, was visited frequently by hummingbirds because its timing of nectar secretion coincided with periods of low temperature when insects were inactive. Sufficient nectar accumulated in flowers to make hummingbird foraging economical in early morning and late afternoon, but not at midday when insects were foraging and had lowered nectar levels. Chilopsis linearis, blooming at lower elevations where low temperatures did not inhibit insect activity, attracted increasing numbers of bumblebees which depleted nectar levels and virtually excluded hummingbirds. The present study provides another example of competition between vertebrates and insects, and suggests that this interaction between distantly related taxa may play a significant role in plant-pollinator coevolution as well as in community ecology.
10.2307/3671110|Extirpations of local populations of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus couesi) within the Sonoran Desert in Arizona are discussed. Seasonal drought is thought to exclude this animal from western Arizona. The recent elimination of isolated populations at the western periphery of the species range is thought to be due to an increase in the incidence and variability of spring drought since 1950. Observed survival rates of white-tailed deer fawns correlated significantly with spring (June) and autumn (November) drought indices.
10.2307/3671111|Two playa lakes on the Southern High Plains of West Texas were sampled over a 2-year period to determine the species composition and diversity of macroinvertebrates. Sixty species were collected in one or more developmental stages with Insecta dominant and Crustacea poorly represented. Diversity index values ranged from 1.5 to 4.0 and were generally higher for a modified basin than a relatively undisturbed lake.
10.2307/3671112|Flowers of Nymphaea odorata open each morning for three successive days. The species is protogynous and first-day flowers are pollen-receptive with the stigmas secreting a fluid which fills the perigynous cup. As potential pollinators are attracted and enter first-day flowers they land on the vertical, but flexible, inner stamens which bend and the insects fall into the stigmatic fluid. The stigmatic fluid washes pollen from the insects and cross-pollination is achieved. Although most insects escape from the stigmatic fluid, some drown. During the second day of anthesis the stigmatic fluid disappears, the stigmas become non-receptive and anther dehiscence, which occurs for 2 days, begins. Self-pollination did not occur in the populations studied. Following the third day of anthesis, the flower submerges. The staminal and perianth parts abscise as the fruit matures underwater.
10.2307/3671113|Nongeographic and geographic variation in the white-throated woodrat (Neotoma albigula) from New Mexico, Texas, and northern Mexico were assessed. A total of 648 adult woodrats (277 males and 371 females) representing 323 individual localities were grouped into 53 samples. Due to sexual dimorphism, univariate and multivariate analyses were performed separately on 11 cranial measurements of both males and females. Three subspecies, N. a. albigula, N. a. subsolana, and N. a. warreni, are recognized in the region studied. N. a. melas and N. a. robusta, two melanistic races from New Mexico and Trans-Pecos Texas, are synonomized with N. a. albigula.
10.2307/3671114|Postnatal growth and development were studied in 41 litters of Peromyscus leucopus texanus from the Lower Rio Grande Valley (LRGV) of Texas. Data were recorded every other day for the first 2 weeks of life and thence weekly until an age of 105 days. Mean litter size of 3.5 was similar to means reported for most south-temperate populations of this species. Hearing and vision were established by 12 days of age, and running and climbing abilities were well developed by 2 weeks of age. Mean age at weaning was 21 days. Hindfoot length was the first dimension to reach adult size (28 days), followed by length of ear (35 days), length of tail (63 days), length of body (70 days), and weight (>77 days). Large litters did not grow at slower rates than small litters. Comparisons among populations of P. leucopus indicate that growth and developmental rates for most of the parameters studied are relatively similar throughout the range of the species. However, a population from Campeche, Mexico, exhibited more rapid morphological development than north-temperate and LRGV populations. The data suggest that adaptation to specific habitat factors or availability of critical resources are of primary importance in determining rates of growth and development in Peromyscus leucopus.
10.2307/3671115|The Coolidge effect is a resumption of copulatory behavior in satiated males that occurs on replacement of the original mating partner with a novel female. Eighteen male northern grasshopper mice were studied in tests in which at the attainment of the satiety criterion either (a.) the original female was removed and reintroduced, (b.) the original female was replaced with a novel unmated female, or (c.) the original female was replaced with a novel mated female. Males were significantly more likely to resume copulation with the novel unmated females than with the original females. Results with the novel mated female were intermediate. It has been proposed that species that are monogamous in the field should fail to display a Coolidge effect. The present findings are incompatible with either this proposal or with the proposal that grasshopper mice are monogamous. Better field data are needed on Onychomys social organization.
10.2307/3670901|A new subspecies of tui chub, Gila bicolor eurysoma, is described from the Guano Basin of northwestern Nevada and southeastern Oregon. Gila bicolor eurysoma is most closely allied to the undescribed subspecies of tui chub in Catlow Basin, Oregon, which supports the evidence for recent connections between waters of the two basins.
10.2307/3670902|Summer waterfowl use of playa lakes in summer was significantly associated with characteristics of emergent vegetation and with turbidity. Biological differences between modified and unmodified playa lakes include total cover, height of emergent vegetation, invertebrate populations, and brood use. Modification of playa basins reduced the littoral zones available for important aquatic communities, thus underscoring the conservation and management needs for the playa resources.
10.2307/3670903|I studied a colony of rock squirrels in the Texas Hill Country from February to October, 1979. The number of residents varied from 8 to 29. A single male was resident from February until late May, and most female home ranges were encompassed by the male's territory. Six females produced 23 young: 14 females and 9 males. Females with litters restricted their activities to areas near the natal burrow and were territorial toward other adult females. Dispersing young left the colony site approximately 3 months after they emerged from the natal burrows. During the breeding period, adults of both sexes exhibited considerable movement.
10.2307/3670904|This study provides baseline data on the zooplankton community of LaCygne Lake before its use as a cooling pond and documents changes occurring after startup of the electrical power generation station. The spring zooplankton maximum shifted from July during the summer before plant operation to May and April in the two successive years after plant operation began. Zooplankton density increased significantly after the plant began operation. In situ thermal tolerance experiments simulated passage through the condenser and discharge canal by exposing zooplankton 4 h to temperatures ranging from 35 to 40C. Bosmina longirostris was the most heat resistant species. B. longirostris increased in density more than other zooplankton species after plant startup.
10.2307/3670905|Twenty-one years after chaparral was converted to grassland and riparian habitat in central Arizona, bird population density ranged from a high of 321 pairs per 40 ha in the riparian stringer to a low of 24 pairs per 40 ha on the grassland, compared to 103 pairs per 40 ha in the chaparral. However, the conversion of 40 ha of chaparral resulted in 38 ha of grassland and 2 ha of riparian habitat. Bird density on both areas together was 37 pairs per 40 ha. Thus although population density, species richness, and diversity were higher in the riparian area when contrasted with the chaparral, there was an overall net difference of 66 fewer pairs per 40 ha in the converted area.
10.2307/3670906|Fifteen packrat middens and a ringtail refuse area were recovered and analyzed from Vulture Cave, western Grand Canyon, Arizona. Nineteen radiocarbon dates indicate that packrats inhabited the cave as early as 30,000 B.P. and persisted there throughout the Wisconsinan full and late glacial. No deposits were found which indicate that Neotoma lived in the cave from 11,000 to 2,000 B.P. Only one Holocene age (1,000 B.P.) packrat midden was dated from the cave. Forty-seven plant taxa were identified from the cave deposits. Extralocal species accounted for 28% of the total fossil flora while species still present in the local community accounted for 57%. Thirty-seven animal taxa (19 reptiles, 3 birds, and 15 mammals) were identified from the cave deposits. The long temporal depth of the Vulture Cave deposits has provided the only late Wisconsinan maximum and pre-maximum plant and animal community assemblage so far reported from the Grand Canyon.
10.2307/3670907|The reproductive success of the Northern Mockingbird (Mimus polyglottos) was studied near Dinero, Texas, during the spring and summer of 1978. A total of 89 nests was discovered, 74 of which were found during incubation. Of these, 55.5% were destroyed by predators. Nesting peaks occurred in the first 2 weeks of May and in the second week of June. Although many factors potentially influence nesting success, only the species of plant used for nest support and brood size were of importance in this study. Nest height and the date of initiation within the breeding season had no significant effect on Mockingbird nest success. Snakes were the most important nest predators. Nest predation by mammals was minor and confined to nests near the ground. Productivity was intermediate between Mockingbirds in Tennessee and Arizona. Nests were destroyed at a daily rate of 2.9% during incubation and 4.5% during the nestling period. Clutch size averaged 3.84 eggs and declined with the progression of the breeding season.
10.2307/3670908|The distribution of 15 species of small mammals was studied along a 160 kim transect in southwestern Utah. The transect followed an elevational gradient and incorporated five community types. Ordination analysis revealed that abundance and distribution of certain small mammal species were influenced by topographic features (Hurricane Cliffs) and vegetational characteristics.
10.2307/3670909|During their periods of availability in 1976 and 1977, the fruits of 17 species of cacti and woody plants eaten by birds and mammals in southern Texas were collected and analyzed for percentages of crude protein (CP), P, Ca, Mg, K, and Na. Crude protein levels ranged from 3.85 to 22.18%; however, levels of CP in most species were inadequate for birds and mammals. None of the fruits contained adequate P levels for birds, and most had deficient P levels for mammals. Most species contained adequate levels of Ca for mammals and inadequate levels for birds. All species had adequate Mg and K levels for birds and mammals, whereas Na levels were generally below the recommended dietary requirement for birds and mammals.
10.2307/3670910|Juveniles of the oligochaete Tubifex tubifex construct "protective" tests. A total of 30 worms with tests and 30 worms without tests were subjected to predation by the chironomid Ablabesmyia. All 30 worms without tests were consumed but only one worm with a test was preyed upon. These experiments indicate that Tubifex tests confer a protective advantage from chironomid predators.
10.2307/3671074|Effects of the east-west oriented Uinta Mountains and adjacent Uinta and Bridger basins on the distribution and taxonomy of the mammals of northeastern Utah are examined. Of the 94 species of mammals in the Uinta Mountains Region, 68 (72.3%) are affected by the Uintas in one or more of the following ways: 1) species boundary coincides with the Uintas (21 species); 2) subspecies boundaries fall within or coincide with the Uintas (12 species); 3) excluded from the Uintas but occur to the north and south or to the west (eight species); 4) boreo-monane species excluded from the adjacent Bridger and Uinta basins (22 species); and 5) use the Green River, which forms the eastern boundary of the Uintas, as a dispersal route (seven species). The influence of the Uintas on the zoogeography of mammals is discussed in the context of the faunal regions represented in the area.
10.2307/3671075|Two species of the helminthoglyptid land snail genus Sonorella are reported to inhabit the Table Top Mountains of Pinal County, Arizona; S. milleri, new species, is described, and a range extension is recorded for S. superstitionis taylori, previously known only from the Salt River Mountains of Maricopa County.
10.2307/3671076|Eight tree and shrub species were transplanted on sandy dredged material from the intracoastal waterway on Bolivar Peninsula, Texas. Winter plantings of trees and shrubs established and grew better than summer plantings. Elevations of plantings were critical for Tamarix gallica (salt cedar), Pinus clausa (sand pine), and Croton punctatus (gulf croton). Tamarix gallica cuttings and Pinus clausa seedlings survived better in moist than dry substrate. Croton punctatus survival and growth was poor in wet substrate, but good in dry. Quercus virginiana (live oak), Rhus copallina (dwarf sumac), and Myrica cerifera (southern wax myrtle) appeared to have the widest tolerance for substrate moisture conditions. These species or similar adapted species may allow habitat development for wildlife species on dredged material.
10.2307/3671077|The breeding habits of Bufo coccifer were studied in northwestern Costa Rica between 1971 and 1974. This species breeds during the rainy season, at least from May through August. Males chorus from areas of shallow water. Their calls resemble those of Mexican representatives of the species in pulse rate and duration, but are closer to those of other Costa Rican and Panamanian populations in dominant frequency. Thus, our data do not clearly support recognition of Bufo cycladen as a distinct species for the Mexican populations. Amplexus is axillary, and two strings of eggs are extruded simultaneously during oviposition. Tadpoles, described for the first time in this paper, are secretive and do not aggregate. Development to metamorphosis requires about 5 weeks.
10.2307/3671078| Chemical composition and in vitro digestibility of several browse species were analyzed in an attempt to determine the effects of a severe wildfire on the nutritional value of browse to deer. Analysis of variance showed highly significant differences (P  0.01) between ash, calcium, ether extract, and acid-detergent fiber contents of browse from the burned and unburned areas. However, highly significant interactions (P  0.01) indicate fire effects vary with the species or plant part and season. Ash, calcium, and ether extract percentages were lower in those plants from the burned area and acid-detergent fiber was greater. It is doubtful, though, that at the time of sampling, the differences found were of nutritional significance to the local deer population. 
10.2307/3671079|Conotrachelus neomexicanus Fall (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), Conophthorus ponderosae Hopkins (Coleoptera: Scolytidae), Dioryctria rossi Munroe, D. auranticella (Grote), D. abietivorella (Grote), D. cambiicola (Dyar) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), Cydia piperana (Kearfott) (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae), and Leptoglossus occidentalis Heidemann (Hemiptera: Coreidae) were reared from samples of infested cones or (D. cambiicola) cone-bearing shoots. Timing of certain life history events is discussed, and a key to species responsible for damage is presented.
10.2307/3671080| Anisacanthus wrightii seed germination and radicle growth were greatest at 35 C and both rapidly decreased at temperatures above 35C. Seeds germinated equally well in light and dark and had no after-ripening requirements. Treatments which decreased water availability significantly reduced germination and radicle length. Germination percentages and radicle growth of seeds in aqueous media were not significantly different between pH 4 and 7 but were significantly reduced at pH values of 8 and 9. Germinability of Anisacanthus wrightii seeds decreased rapidly after 33 months dry storage and the seeds did not germinate, during a 10-day test period, after 42 months. 
10.2307/3671081|Males of two species of garter snake (Thamnophis) were tested monthly, April-October, for their ability to follow trails laid by conspecific females in a 183 by 122 cm arena. Thamnophis sirtalis trailed best in April, May, and June; did not trail in late July; and showed intermediate trailing ability in August, September, and October. This variation in trailing activity reflects seasonal changes in the reproductive activity of this species. Thamnophis proximus males trailed females equally well throughout the entire season. As this species' reproductive habits are less known, it still is possible that the pheromone trail is involved primarily in reproduction.
10.2307/3671082|A survey of the White River, Utah, was made during the summer of 1978 and 1979 to determine the abundance and distribution of endemic fishes during and after spring runoff. The fish population was similar to that in other eastern Utah streams. Red shiners (Notropis lutrensis) were most abundant, followed, in order, by roundtail chubs (Gila robusta), flannel-mouth suckers (Catostomus latipinnis), speckled dace (Rhinichthys osculus), fathead minnows (Pimephales promelas), carp (Cyprinus carpio), and channel carfish (Ictalurus punctatus). Blue-head suckers (Catostomus discobolus), black bullheads (Ictalurus melas), green sunfish (Lepomis cyanellus), brown trout (Salmo trutta), and Colorado squawfish (Ptychocheilus lucius) individually comprised less than 0.5% of the total number of fish. Native fishes dominated the fish fauna at upstream stations; introduced fishes dominated at downstream stations. A total of 15 adult Colorado squwfish, an endangered fish, was captured or observed.
10.2307/3671083|Fewer mammalian species occurred on summits of sheer-walled buttes than occurred in similar "mainland" control sites, but density of small mammals on buttes equaled or exceeded mainland density. Peromyscus crinitus, the only terrestrial mammal on Jug Butte, occupied a larger habitat niche there than in control areas. No such niche expansion was noted for P. crinitus on Junction Butte, where four other species of small mammals (Eutamias quadrivittatus, Neotoma lepida, Neotoma cinerea, Peromyscus truei) and at least one large mammal (Canis latrans) also occurred. At least 18 species of terrestrial mammals inhabit the control sites. It is hypothesized that the species number remains static on each butte and is a function of the unique dispersal abilities of each species and does not represent an equilibrium between recurrent colonization and extinction.
10.2307/3671084| Quadripaludis luistoddi gen. nov., sp. nov., se obtuvieron del estmago de cuatro especies de peces endmicos, indescritos del gnero Cichlasoma, procedentes del Valle de Cuatro Cinegas, Coahuila, Mxico; Quadripaludis gen. nov. se caracteriza por presentar tero intercecal, nunca extracecal, sin sobrepasar el nivel de la bifurcacin intestinal, vescula seminal ligeramente sinuosa; y por poseer espacios intercecal amplios, entre la bifurcacin intestinal y acetbulo, as como entre el acetbulo y el ovario. El gnero ms cercano a Quadripaludis gen. nov. es Caballeroiella Lamothe, 1974, pus ambos carecen de vescula hermafrodtica y presentan una papila hermafrodtica muscular bien desarrollada. Se incluyen claves a gneros de Halipeginae. /// Quadripaludis luistoddi gen. nov., sp. nov., is described from the stomachs of four undescribed species of endemic fishes (genus Cichlasoma) from the Cuatro Cinegas Valley, Coahuila, Mxico. Quadripaludis gen. nov. is characterized by an intercecal and cecal uterus, which is never extracecal and does not pass the level of the intestinal furca; seminal vescicle slightly sinuous with wide spaces between the intestinal furca and the acetabulum, and also between the acetabulum and the ovary. This genus is close to Caballeroiella Lamothe, 1974, both lacking a hermaphroditic vescicle and both having a well-developed, muscular hermaphoditic papilla. A key to the genera of Halipeginae is included. 
10.2307/3671085| Tule Creek is an intermittent stream draining Sonoran desertscrub in Yavapai Co., Arizona. An 800-m segment has perennial surface discharge and was the site of a cinaga community dominated by Scirpus olneyi and Anemopsis californica. Extensive flooding in winter 1978 had the following immediate impacts on the system: 1) an introduced population of the endangered Sonoran topminnow (Poeciliopsis o. occidentalis) was destroyed, 2) substrate erosion and entrainment removed vegetation, reduced number of pools, straightened and deepened the channel; and 3) canyon treefrog (Hyla arenicolor) and saltcedar (Tamarix chinensis) were introduced. 
10.2307/3671086|We examined the level of heterozygosity in mallard ducks (Anas platyrhynchos) to test the hypothesis that species with large panmictic breeding populations will have a relatively high level of genic variation. Based on starch-gel electrophoresis of 20 presumed loci, results indicate a low level of genic variability. Therefore, the predicted relationship of high genic variability in a species with a large effective breeding population size was not found.
10.2307/3671400|The 500 kV Navajo Project Southern Transmission Line corridor was cleared for a survey strip in 1971 and used for power line construction in 1972. The degree of disturbance and rate and quality of recovery to a pinyon-juniper woodland is described for the 5-year period from 1972 until the spring of 1977. Unlike other descriptions of juniper succession, woody species in this study did not replace themselves. Herbaceous plants became more prevalent on the disturbed plot, their diversity increased, and they did not become more similar to the plants in the undisturbed plot as succession proceeded.
10.2307/3671401|Efficiency of burying beetles in locating carrion was observed at 102 rat carcasses during June-July, 1980, at two study areas in Dona Ana County, New Mexico. Location time varied from 24 to 100 h, except where putrifying carrion already was present or had been removed recently from the site. In these situations, location time was reduced to 6 h, supporting an hypothesis for priming effects upon location efficiency. Location efficiency ranged from 10 to 80% of available carcasses. Of 37 carcasses colonized, 38% were occupied by single beetles and 27% were occupied by two beetles. The largest assemblage observed at a single carcass was 14 beetles. Sex identification was obtained for 32 beetles collected from 11 carcasses during the final observation period. All single individuals collected were females and all pairs of beetles included at least one female. Larger assemblages were composed of both males and females.
10.2307/3671402|Beach foam samples were taken from North Padre Island beaches each month during a 23-month period. Foam was placed directly on seawater nutrient medium and allowed to incubate for at least 10 days. Thirty-four taxa of fungi were identified. Most genera were terrestial Hyphomycetes, but three genera of Coelomycetes and single representatives of the classes Ascomycetes and Zygomycetes also were identified. Only two species, Dendryphiella arenaria and Varicosporina ramulosa, are considered marine taxa. No apparent differences were found between the mycofloral populations from a heavily used bathing beach at Malaquite and a no-traffic, pedestrian beach.
10.2307/3671403|Nineteen species of cerambycid beetles found co-inhabiting Tepehuaje (Leucaena pulverulenta, Fabaceae) girdled by adult Oncideres pustulata LeConte at the Sabal Palm Grove Sanctuary, Cameron County, Texas, USA, are listed and their habits briefly discussed. Literature concerning cohabitation of O. pustulata girdles by other longhorned beetles is reviewed. Characters for separating larvae of O. pustulata and the closely-related Lochmaeocles c. cornuticeps (Schaeffer) are enumerated. Other insects associated with O. pustulata-girdled Tepehuaje include 14 species in the beetle families Buprestidae, Curculionidae, Bostrichidae, Tenebrionidae, Mordellidae, Trogositidae, Cleridae; and the Tineidae (Lepidoptera).
10.2307/3671404|The new variety, known only from Sierra de las Pampas, 450 km west of the distributional area of the nominate variety, is distinguished especially by its larger stature, the wholly involute leaf-blades, and the simple, flaccid tip of the inflorescence-branch.
10.2307/3671405|Physico-chemical and biotic parameters were investigated from June 1977 to May 1978 in coal strip-mine ponds in Colorado which differed in age and in the proportion of drainage derived from the mine. There were no discernible effects of mine drainage on temperature, dissolved oxygen, hardness, pH, acidity, alkalinity, calcium, iron, orthophosphate, or the organic content of the substrate. In contrast to spoils ponds in eastern and midwestern states, acid mine drainage was not observed. Total dissolved solids, nitrate, and sulfate values were higher in the spoils ponds than in the control pond. Net zooplankton abundance was lowest in the youngest spoils pond, but the standing crop of benthos exhibited a progressive decrease from the youngest spoils pond to the control pond. Certain zooplanktonic and benthic species were rare or absent in the youngest spoils pond. Colonization phenomena (age and distance from a source of colonizers) are postulated as responsible, in part, for the faunal differences between ponds, although higher levels of nitrate, sulfate, and TDS in the spoils ponds may provide adverse conditions for certain species. If these data are typical of the western energy region, they suggest the potential for development of recreational lakes as a part of reclamation practices.
10.2307/3671406|The White Sands pupfish (Cyprinodon tularosa) was introduced into a 0.1-ha, shallow, saline, eutrophic desert pond in the Tularosa Basin, New Mexico, in 1973. Life history investigations and a population estimate were made in 1975 and 1976. Maximum longevity of the pupfish was 5 years, at which age they were 56.2 mm total length and weighed 3.4 g. The length-weight relationship was log W = -5.25601 + 3.30845 log L. Weight of fish when each annulus formed was computed. Mean fecundity ranged from 810 ova per female in Age Group I to 2,996 in Age Group IV, with a grand mean of 1,140. A Schnabel estimate of 12,520 trappable-size fish was expanded to form a survival curve described by log S = 3.74658 - 5.99959 log A, which showed that the population varied from 1,950,583 to 30,527 during the year. Mean standing crop biomass was 13.344 kg. The population and length-weight curves were integrated to compute estimates of live-weight biomass production of White Sands pupfish in each age group during 0.1-yr intervals. Total annual somatic production was 25.309 kg. Ratio of production to standing crop biomass was 1.90 or 190%. Production of 2.448 kg of eggs was estimated separately. Production rates of 25.3 g/m<sup>2</sup>/yr of somatic tissue, 2.5 g/m<sup>2</sup>/yr of eggs, and 27.8 g/m<sup>2</sup>/yr of total production are relatively high among fish at trophic level A<sub>3</sub>. Fish in Age Group 0 accounted for 91.6% of the live-weight biomass produced and Age Group I accounted for 8%. A high rate of total production, extremely high rates of production by the youngest age groups, and a large ratio of production to standing crop biomass indicate that the population was below carrying capacity and was expanding.
10.2307/3671407|Fire has historically been an important factor in the maintenance of tallgrass prairie vegetation. Summer fires have often been thought to be more effective than dormant season fires in controlling the invasion of woody species into prairies. However, in an Oklahoma grassland, late-winter burning (March) had a more pronounced effect in reducing the density of woody species than did summer (July) burning. This response was possibly due to both environmental and site conditions. Two woody species increased in density following both summer or late-winter burning while nine species decreased in density or were eliminated by fire. Two additional woody species exhibited varied responses depending on season of burn. Woody species density increased in the smallest seedling size class, but decreased for larger seedling and sapling size classes following both burning regimes. Finally, numbers of woody and herbaceous species decreased following both summer and late-winter burns.
10.2307/3671408|Species circumscription of the subtropical genus Stegnosperma (Phytolaccaceae) is made difficult by great variability within S. halimifolium, a common shrub in Baja California also present in Sonora, Mexico. The problem is compounded by the difficulty of discriminating between two of the three species of the genus, S. halimifolium and S. watsonii, by means of previously suggested characters. Clustering and principal component analysis were applied to the problem using 60 morphological traits recorded from herbarium specimens of the three species and 75 characteristics from four population samples of S. halimifolium. Results demonstrate that S. halimifolium and S. watsonii are distinct and clearly distinguishable by a large suite of characteristics and new discriminators are indicated. Stegnosperma halimifolium is more variable than the narrowly distributed S. watsonii and the oldest of four sampled populations of the former species is from the Cape Region on the Pacific side of the peninsula.
10.2307/3671409|A total of 489 Ictalurus punctatus was collected between October 1975 and July 1977 from a riffle section of the Little Brazos River, Brazos County, Texas, and examined for Alloglossidium corti. Incidence of A. corti reached a high of 100% in April and then declined to a low of approximately 55% in October or November each year. Intensity increased in February and March, reaching peaks of approximately 90 flukes per infected fish in 1976 and 50 in 1977. Recruitment in catfish appeared to be heaviest in January and March each year; however, immature flukes were present in all monthly samples except during May. Fluke counts conformed to the negative binomial distribution in 10 of the months sampled during the study. Increases in incidence and intensity of A. corti in channel catfish appeared to be related to seasonal migration of large fish (>25.4 cm) into the riffle study area. Incidence and intensity were least in small fish (5.5 to 15.4 cm), greater in medium sized fish (15.4 to 25.4), and greatest in large fish (>25.4). Regression analysis suggested a weak correlation between increasing length of fish and increasing intensity of flukes; however, large fish generally had more A. corti than small and medium size classes.
10.2307/3671410|Physicochemical measurements and phytoplankton were collected every 3 h during four, 24-h sampling periods in summer, 1976 and 1977, from Otter Creek, Oklahoma. Chlorophyll concentration and phytoplankton density were correlated with highest values occurring in late morning or afternoon. Ninety-four taxa of phytoplankton were collected; most were planktonic diatoms, green algae, or euglenophytes. Diel variations in species diversity and equitability was small and generally reflected changes in one or two dominant species. The algal pollution index exhibited considerable diel variation, indicating the importance of considering time of day when using the index.
10.2307/3671411|Fire history was studied in cypress forests and pinyon-juniper savannas. Fire dates were determined by tree ring counts from scars on Pinus cembroides. At least 10 fires occurred in the vicinity of Boot Canyon and at least eight on the Rim between 1770 and 1940. Episodic ground fires seem an important mortality factor of established pinyon and cypress saplings, but as trees grow to larger sizes, fire mortality is reduced. Longer fire intervals probably are filters that permit trees to survive into larger, fire-impervious sizes. Surface fires about every 50 years are one way to maintain the vegetation in some semblance of a natural, fire-regulated condition.
10.2307/3671412|A rare incidence of natural interspecific hybridization has occurred in south-central Texas as a result of secondary contact between two allopatrically evolved species, smallmouth bass (Micropterus dolomieui) and Guadalupe bass (M. treculi). Hybridization was initiated by the stocking of smallmouth bass into the habitat of the endemic Guadalupe bass. The extent of hybridization and genetic introgression has been analyzed using a meristic index and diagnostic allozyme loci. Because hybridization is a relatively recent event, little evidence of genetic introgression was found. However, the possibility of future introgression remains as a threat to the genetic integrity of the Guadalupe bass population.
10.2307/3671413|A total of 68 species has been recorded in the main channel of Thompson Creek, Louisiana. Pronounced replacements and/or additions of species and concurrent shifts in relative abundance of shared species were found between the baselevel Mississippi River floodplain, the permanently flowing upland section, and the intermittent headwaters. This gradient was quantified by similarity indices. Another prominent trend was the downstream increase in number of species.
10.2307/3671136| Records of band recoveries from 170,000 bats banded in northern Oklahoma between 1952 and 1968 are summarized to present an account of the migratory habits of the Great Plains population of this species. Winter range lies between 20 and 29N, and between the Gulf of Mexico and the interior of the Mexican Plateau. Maximum recorded distance from banding site to point of recovery is 1,840 km. One bat was recovered in its natal cave after making eight migratory circuits. A theory regarding the use of olfaction in long-range navigation is presented. 
10.2307/3671137|The invasion of Camponotus laevigatus (F. Smith) nests by Formica haemorrhoidalis Emery is described. The C. laevigatus workers attempt to defend their nest from attack but retreat into the inner galleries of the nest where they are slowly eliminated by the F. haemorrhoidalis workers. Although the invasion of C. laevigatus nests by F. haemorrhoidalis is a common occurrence, the two species coexist. This coexistence may be due to several factors: 1) Camponotus laevigatus is able to disperse greater distances than F. haemorrhoidalis and is therefore able to invade and establish itself in recently disturbed areas several years before the area is invaded by F. haemorrhoidalis. 2) Camponotus laevigatus is able to occupy habitats such as dense woods where F. haemorrhoidalis does not occur. 3) Coexistence may be temporary and C. laevigatus may ultimately be excluded from certain areas. The effect of F. haemorrhoidalis on the C. laevigatus population may not be important; evidence indicates that a C. laevigatus population can increase in an area heavily colonized by F. haemorrhoidalis. It is often assumed that competitive displacement involving native species is rare as an equilibrium between the species has been established in the past. The investigations of Brian, Pontin, Scherba, and that reported here show that displacement involving native ant species may be common, at least in disturbed or artificial situations.
10.2307/3671138| Pinus edulis (pion pine) and Quercus gambelii (Gambel oak) near Dolores, Colorado, coexist in successional sequence leading to woodland regeneration. The germination of seeds and the establishment of seedlings of Pinus edulis are enhanced under an oak canopy. In a mature pion woodland, oak exists as scattered understory, and pion individuals of less than 10-cm diameters constitute 45% of the population. In contrast, 75% of the piones have diameters less than 10 cm in a stand which is invading an oak-dominated habitat. Near Dolores, Colorado, the oak stand is viewed as successional, leading to a pion woodland. 
10.2307/3671139|Although western sandpipers are primarily Pacific coast migrants, some migrate to and from breeding grounds in Alaska through interior North America. On the Great Plains, numbers are small and movements irregular during spring migration, whereas in fall western sandpipers are more numerous and widespread. Western sandpipers banded at Cheyenne Bottoms, Kansas, have been encountered in Florida, Mexico, and Guyana. Individuals banded in coastal British Columbia have been recovered at Cheyenne Bottoms. Banded adults in fall remained at Cheyenne Bottoms for an average of 34 days; immature birds remained an average of 13 days. Mean estimated flight ranges varied from 909 to 2,443 km among samples of immature and adult western sandpipers. Our data and literature review suggest that interior migrating western sandpipers may have a breeding range distinct from that occupied by Pacific coast migrants and that some individuals may migrate north along the Pacific coast and south across the continental interior.
10.2307/3671140|Seasonal activity of snakes was investigated in northeastern Chihuahua, Mexico, from 1975 to 1977. The effect of rainfall patterns on seasonal snake activity was studied for 20 species collected along Mexico Highway 16 from Villa Aldama to El Pastor. A positive correlation exists between the number of snakes collected and the amount of precipitation, which in this region is highest in July. The greatest number of snakes was taken in August, about 1 month after the peak in rainfall. The relationship between rainfall, and its effects on vegetation and ultimately on seed and insect production, is discussed in relation to the prey available to snakes. Summer rain is the ultimate factor regulating food supply for snakes in Chihuahua and snake activity is greatest when prey items are most abundant.
10.2307/3671141|During a 6-year study of the community dynamics of arthropods during secondary succession in a pinyon-juniper woodland in north-central Arizona, it was found that disturbance caused by the construction of high voltage powerlines only temporarily reduced arthropod densities. Thrips, leafhoppers, aphids, and moths increased on disturbed areas whereas mites and scale insects decreased significantly. The diversity of arthropods increased after disturbance and this appears to be related to plant community composition. The arthropod communities on the control and disturbed plots were not similar after construction. The arthropods are apparently dependent on reestablishment of native plant species for recovery. Thrips, aphids, and moths were significantly correlated with cover of annual or perennial herbs. This probably led to greater productivity of these arthropod taxa on the disturbed areas, which had greater amounts of this kind of ground cover than did the control plots. The predominant between-plot differences in arthropod community composition involves enhanced numbers of many herbivore and some non-herbivore taxa which apparently have responded to the greater cover of herbaceous plants on the disturbed areas. Greater herbivore pressure on the plant species which have become established on the disturbed plots may be related to their early successional status.
10.2307/3671142|Red fox (Vulpes vulpes) distribution, relative abundance, and population trend data were collected from museum records, questionnaires to professional wildlife personnel, and field observations. With the possible exception of the Oklahoma Panhandle, red foxes occurred statewide in low abundance. Greatest abundance occurred in the oak-hickory forest in northeastern Oklahoma. Red fox numbers were reported to be decreasing or stable by most (73%) of the questionnaire respondents.
10.2307/3671143|With females outside nests, males of Phidippus femoratus perform complex displays consisting of dancing, rotation and quivering of the palps, and quivering of the erected legs I. Individual displays of this species seem more complex than those described for other species of Phidippus. Hypotheses concerning selection pressure favoring complexity are considered.
10.2307/3671144|Microhabitat selection in relation to vegetation structure and general aspect is described for grasshoppers from an arid grassland in western Texas. Comparisons of microhabitat use are made among species at each site and between sites as well as between entire assemblages of species (lumped) for the two sites in order to assess the role of biotic interactions in the determination of the patterns. Grasshoppers do not inhabit microhabitats in a random fashion and very definite preferences are observed for most species. Also, the number and type of microhabitat occupied by grasshoppers varies according to species. Use of structural microhabitat by all species is observed to be in the same proportion as that in which it occurs in the habitat even though individual species generally use only a restricted range of microhabitats. The use of structural habitat between Marathon and Sul Ross Mountain (for the entire assemblage in each case) is statistically indistinguishable. Distributions of niche breadths for all species at a site do not differ between Marathon and Sul Ross Mountain and distributions of niche breadth do not differ between subfamilies. However, individual species found at both Marathon and Sul Ross Mountain may occupy different microhabitats from one site to the next. The notion that interactions among species are responsible for patterns of microhabitat use is discussed.
10.2307/3671145|A greenhouse-grown Pinus ponderosa var. scopulorum produced pollen at the early age of 1 year. Stress is hypothesized as the cause of the precocious cone-production. Pollen viability tests were negative.
10.2307/3670872|The characteristics of the upper first internode of flowering stems of Eriogonum inflatum have been regarded as indicators of varietal differences within the species: var. inflatum, with inflations; var. deflatum, without inflations. Inflations also have been claimed to be caused by galling insects. Studies on three populations in central and northwestern Arizona indicate that each individual passes through a stage without inflated stems before producing inflated stems, indicating that these varietal distinctions are invalid. Also, inflations developed without insect attack, and a population in northwestern Arizona has large inflations in the total absence of insect attack.
10.2307/3670873|Ophioplocus esmarki Lyman and Ophionereis annulata LeConte are common species of brittlestars inhabiting the coastal waters of the eastern Pacific Ocean. Ophioplocus esmarki internally broods its embryos, while Ophionereis annulata presumably produces a lecithotrophic, pelagic larva. Forty-five individuals of each species were collected from three sites near San Diego, California. Electrophoresis was employed to screen each species for genic variation at 13 genetic loci to determine if differences in larval developmental modes were reflected in levels of genic variability and the extent of genetic differentiation among sampling sites of each species. Ophioplocus esmarki was polymorphic for 46.2% of its loci, while the average individual was heterozygous at 11.1% of its loci. These estimates were 51.3% and 12.6% for Ophionereis annulata. Deviations in genotypic frequencies from those expected on the basis of the Hardy-Weinberg Law were found within sites for both species, but were somewhat more pronounced in Ophioplocus esmarki. Genetic heterogeneity among sites was assessed by chi-square and the computation of genetic distances. Similar levels of microgeographic variation were observed in both species despite their different modes of larval development. Both species displayed substantial differentiation on a microgeographic scale, which was tentatively attributed to population subdivision and genetic drift.
10.2307/3670874|Geographic isolation and adaptation have combined to produce two different populations of Crotalus l. lepidus in southwestern Texas. Statistically significant differences in background color-matching are the result of adaptation to dominant substrate colors that differ sharply between ranges of the two populations. Uniformly dark primary blotches in combination with pink and buff ground colors characterize the Davis Mountains-Big Bend population which is confined mainly to the darkly weathered volcanic rocks of the Davis Mountains and Big Bend region. The Stockton-Edwards Plateau population occurs on the more lightly weathered limestones of the Stockton and western Edwards plateaus, and displays ground colors of various shades of gray combined with a pronounced anterior fading of the primary blotches. Snakes of the Davis Mountains-Big Bend population have a significantly higher mean number of primary blotches than those of the Stockton-Edwards Plateau population. Stretches of desert flatland serve as effective barriers, limiting gene flow and enabling populations to respond separately to selection pressure applied by need for concealment from predators and/or prey.
10.2307/3670875|Cessation of water flow from spring snow melt in Dry Creek, a mid-elevation intermittent stream in northern Arizona, produces three types of aquatic habitats: main channel ponds, seepage pools, and isolated pools. Differences among the habitat types permit coexistence between a predaceous dytiscid larva and a mosquito larva along this streamcourse. Experiments showed that mosquito populations in habitats that lacked the predator later became extinct when the predator was introduced. The predator is mobile and can move to all three types of habitats, two of which are rich in mosquito prey. The dytiscid did not normally exist in these two habitats during the day. Both types of pools were smaller and had less silt and debris than did side pools along the main channel. Lack of substantial substrata may be a factor contributing to the absence of the predator, as the predator also is cannibalistic and has a tendency to hide within the substrata after encountering another individual of the same species. Information also is presented relating numbers of species to the types and sizes of pools censused in the study. The smaller pools appeared to exclude predators, making these pools more favorable habitats for the two common prey, Culiseta inorata and tadpoles of Hyla arenicolor.
10.2307/3670876|Analysis of plants of Juniperus scopulorum var. columnaris revealed only two siginifcant differences in morphology and one difference in terpenoid compostion between columnar trees growing near a burning coal seam and pyramidal trees at a site 3 km away. Canonical variate analysis of the chemical and morphological data using representative specimens of J. scopulorm, J. virginiana, and J. horizontalis indicate that the columnar trees at the type locality near Burning Coal Vein Park, North Dakota, and pyramidal trees from a nearby site cluster with J. scopulorum. Putative hybrids between J. horizontalis and J. scopulorum were confirmed by analysis of both character sets. Species relationships were maintained even when using plants exposed to the gases from the burning coal seam. Juniperus scopulorum var. columnaris is rejected as being only environmentally induced and, therefore, is conspecific with J. scopulorum var. scopulorm.
10.2307/3670877|Twenty species of aquatic oligochaetes are reported from Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Nicaragua, and Honduras. Species are in the families Aeolosomatidae, Opistocystidae, and Naididae. Setal measurements are cited for each species and compared with measurements from other parts of the range. Seven of the species are cosmopolitan and seven show neotropical affinities, while only two show nearctic relationships. Two species, Pristina menoni and Dero plumosa, are reported for the first time from the Western Hemisphere.
10.2307/3670878|Species compostion and range condition data collected for 17 years were analyzed to determine successional trends of two old field sites, at least 43 years of age, in the shortgrass prairie of the Pawneee National Grasslands, northeastern Colorado. Old field species composition was relatively diverse, consisting of mixed shrubs, perennial grasses, and herbaceous species. Frequency values for Bouteloua gracilis ranged fro 2% in old fields to 40-60% in the adjacent shortgrass prairie. Although a weak trend toward convergence with the unplowed condition was evident, the successional process is slow, and likely to exceed 50 years if the unplowed condition is ever to be reached.
10.2307/3670879|Nine species of tenebrionid beetles in four genera, Eleodes, Embaphion, Eusattus, and Glyptasida, were collected in pitfall traps throughout an annual cycle at two sites in a mesquite dune habitat on the Jornada Experimental Range (USDA) north of Las Cruses, New Mexico. These beetles were shown to have seasonal activity patterns which were similar at both sites and which differed significantly between most species.
10.2307/3670880|Two sites, one relatively undisturbed and one heavily used for training activities, were sampled in the upland Juniperus ashei-Quercus fusiformis community. Effects of intensive tank training over a period of years are: (1) reduction of total plant cover by approximately 60%; (2) disturbance and consequent erosion of about 60% of the soil surface; (3) reduction in density and cover of woody vegetation without any major change in species composition; and (4) a major shift in herbaceous plant species from perennials to small annuals. Continued use of the same site for training will probably not result in much further deterioration.
10.2307/3670881|Pupation site preferences (PSP) with respect to light, temperature, and gravity were studied in two species of cactophilic Drosophila, D. nigrospiracula and D. mettleri. Although specific preferences were exhibited, no significant difference was found between the species in PSP for light. A small but significant difference exists for temperature preference. The two species were found to be behaviorally differentiated in their PSP with respect to gravity. Differentiation in this parameter was anticipated based on the known differences in the primary larval niches of these species. Correlations between larval and adult behavior are discussed.
10.2307/3670882|The extent of variation occurring in one population of the infrequently observed Texas Lyre Snake (Trimorphodon biscutatus vilkinsoni) is unknown; previous data relate to a few single specimens or collectively to no more than 16 (Gehlbach, 1971) from throughout the range of the subspecies. As a basis for future studies we provide data on morphological variation (standard features of scutellation and head and body patterns) of 22 specimens from the southern Franklin Mountains, near El Paso, Texas.
10.2307/3670883|In a pinyon-juniper chaparral habitat in north central Arizona arthropod numbers were reduced for only about 2 years after disturbance caused by the construction of high voltage powerlines. Thereafter, arthropod densities increased to a level equal to or surpassing the control area. Significant reduction occurred in the Acarina, Melyridae, and Coccoidea. The number of taxa occurring on the study plot was variable and minimally affected by construction. Arthropod community similarity appears to be related to total plant cover and not exclusively the presence of particular plant species. Ecological similarity of new plant colonizers to former inhabitants also may play an important role in the recovery of arthropods. Construction caused a great reduction in perennial grasses, a delayed reduction in perennial herbs, and in general an increase in annual herbs. Shrub live oak, a colonizer of disturbed areas, was important in the reestablishment of arthropods on the disturbed plot because it provided a vertical vegetational component and a greater amount of cover. Little site preparation and thus little disturbance was necessary for construction of a transmission tower at this locality, which probably aided in rapid recolonization of plants and arthropods. Greater numbers of arthropod-plant correlations may be the result of reduced foodweb complexity on the disturbed area, with a disruption of the ability of secondary, tertiary, and possibly quaternary arthropod consumers to regulate arthropod primary consumer populations.
10.2307/3670884|The grassland communities of east-central New Mexico were described based on species-cover data from 51 stands at 13 randomly selected sites. These stands were grouped into two habitats using cluster analysis. Habitats were named according to the dominant grass species of the habitat: Blue grama (Bouteloua gracilis) and New Mexico feathergrass (Stipa neomexicana). Blue grama habitats were found to have deeper soils with greater clay content than feathergrass habitats. Densities of the range caterpillar (Hemileuca oliviae), determined six times during its univoltine life cycle, were greater in the blue grama habitats than in the feathergrass habitats from the mid-larval through adult stages. This effect was due to greater mortality of middle instar larvae in feathergrass habitats than in blue grama habitats.
10.2307/3670885|Two new taxa, Verbesina daviesiae and a variety of V. hypomalaca, both belonging to the Sect. Verbesinaria, are described. The former is an eglandular taxon restricted to mountainous gullies near Saltillo, while the latter is a widespread glandular species composed of three varieties, one of which, var. saltillensis, is described as new.
10.2307/3670886|The White River of Arkansas and Missouri formerly supported a numerous and diverse assemblage of freshwater Mollusca. Reservoir construction, channelization, and other methods of stream regulation have altered the basin extensively. Of the approximately 100 species once knwn from the White River system, 64 species have been collected during recent sampling from the primary channel of the river. The remainder of the molluscan fauna appears to have been extirpated from the main channel. Isolated populations of these species may still occur in some of the tributaries.
10.2307/3670711|Most species of Lupinus were found predominately to occur on moderate to steeply sloping hillsides. Occurrence of certain lupines is strongly correlated, either positively or negatively, with other plants and some negative associations may be ascribed to phytotoxins. Most lupines prefer coarse-textured soils within relatively narrow elevational limits. The pH range of most species was fairly narrow, possibly because symbiotic Rhizobium strains cannot tolerate wider levels. Considerable environmental variability coupled with human-created habitats has formed a basis for adaptive radiation and expanded distributions in this area.
10.2307/3670712|Sabatia tuberculata J. E. Williams, a gypsophilous endemic from the Cuatro Cienegas basin in central Coahuila, is distinguished from the wide-ranging S. stellaris Pursh of the eastern United States, Caribbean and central Mexico by its larger habit, larger flowers and the presence of a basal rosette of distinctly tuberculate leaves.
10.2307/3670713|The mature forest of the Guadalupe River floodplain is dominated by pecan (Carya illinoinensis) with Texas surgarberry (Celtis laevigata) and bald cypress (Taxodium distichum) as major subdominates. Twenty-nine other woody species were encountered in the study. Statistically greater total density, total dominance, and species richness were found at the river's edge. Several species were limited to the water's edge, the most important of these being bald cypress, whereas other dominant species were equally distributed throughout the riparian forest. The dominant species in the study all have eastern affinities and the floodplain forests of the Edwards Plateau represent the westernmost extension of their ranges.
10.2307/3670714|It is sometimes difficult to assign individual specimens of Eutamias to a taxonomic category using conventional morphological characters and is often necessary to rely on distribution maps. Use of the genital bones along with measurements and color characters can provide a more reliable means of accurate identification. Previous papers have discussed the genital bones of several Eutamias species (White, 1953; Anderson, 1960; Adams and Sutton, 1968; Sutton and Nadler, 1974; Callahan, 1975, 1977). The genital bones of each sex are distincitve in form, of uniform type for each species and thus are reliable as taxonomic traits. This paper presents descriptions of additional material on the female genital bone (os clitoris or baubellum) of sepecimens in 16 species and 42 subspecies of the genus Eutamias.
10.2307/3670715|Sixty-three animals from two isolated burro herds in Grand Canyon National Park were autopsied. Significant differences in age structure and body condition were found when the two populations were compared. Differences in female repoductive rates were not significant. However, the younger herd which was in better condition had a higher recruitment rate (17 vs. 11 percent). Earliest female reproductive activity was observed at 1-2 years, and parturition took place in spring and early summer. We suggest that demographic differences between the two populations result from differing habitat quality and previous burro reduction programs of the National Park Service.
10.2307/3670716|Abronia angustifolia occurs as an annual over most of its range. The only known occurrence of perennial A. angustifolia plants is at the White Sands gypsum dune field of southern New Mexico. Three populations of A. angustifolia were found to have inherent differences in perennating capacity and in the timing of the onset of growth and flowering. The presence of perennial populations at White Sands may indicate that an evolutionary reversion to an ancestal perennial habit is occurring or that these are relict populations. Perennation appears to be enhanced by a uniform and ample water supply from a shallow water table.
10.2307/3670717|The vegetation from abandoned mine sites in the Picher lead zinc mining field in Ottawa County, Oklahoma, structurally and compositionally resembles that of other disturbed habitats in the eastern part of Oklahoma. The overstory dominants are cottonwood (Populus deltoides) and black willow (Salix nigra). Winged sumac (Rhus copallina), American elm (Ulmus americana), and black cherry (Prunus serotina) were the most important understory species. The seeds of the characteristic overstory and understory vegetation are primarily dipersed by wind and birds. Inefficient seed dispersal is suggested as a reason for the almost complete absence from these sites of the upland forest dominants, oaks (Quercus spp.) and hickories (Carya spp.) Soil analyses revealed the sites have high concentrations of heavy metals, however, their potential toxic effects may have been alleviated to some extent by the high pH and soil calcium concentrations. Macronutrients are not limiting in the soils from these sites. Similarity indicies and unidimensional site ordination were used to investigate the intrasite variation and reveal a correspondence between the individual site vegetative composition and soils.
10.2307/3670718|This study examined the summer food habits of Crenichthys baileyi albivallis, Rhinichths osculus velifer, and Catostomus clarki intermedius from Preston Big Spring, Nevada, and Crenichthys nevadae from Big Spring at Lockes Ranch, Nevada. The two spring habitats are quite dissimilar. Preston Big Spring is a large, cool spring with a large algal flora dominated by chlorophytes, and a diverse invertebrate fauna. Big Spring at Lockes Ranch is warm, somewhat smaller, and harbors a small algal flora dominated by cyanophytes, as well as a depauperate fauna. Crenichthys b. albivallis was primarily herbivorous during the summer when it consumed large volumes of the abundant green algae. Some opportunistic individuals however, consumed mostly insect larvae. Rhinichthys o. velifer was omnivorous, consuming a wide variety of foods. The diet of Catostomus c. intermedius consisted of plant material and some detritus. Crenichthys nevadae was carnivorous, preferring ostracods and avoiding the blue-green algae.
10.2307/3670719|Reproduction and population structure of Kinosternon sonoriense were studied June 1970-October 1972 in central and southern Arizona. Populations were intensively investigated at Tule Stream, Yavapai County and Sycamore Creek, Maricopa County (elevations of 610 m and 1,200 m respectively). Reproductive strategies and population densities differed in the two populations, reflecting differences in elevation and temperature. Males in both populations matured smaller and at a younger age than females, and both sexes at Tule Stream matured at a smaller size and younger age than did conspecifics at Sycamore Creek. Mating was in March and April at both sites. Egg laying began in late May and continued through September at lower elevations but terminated in July at higher ones. Females from Tule Stream produced two clutches per year while those from Sycamore Creek produced only one. The Tule Stream population had a density of approximately 750/ha; densities at Sycamore Creek were lower.
10.2307/3670586|The teiid lizard Cnemidophorus martyris Stejneger is endemic to Isla San Pedro Mrtir, a small island in the central region of the Gulf of California about midway between the coast of Sonora and the Peninsula of Baja California, Mxico. Small mesoptychial scales, granular postantebrachial scales, 4-4 or more supraocular scales, and paired frontoparietal scales align the San Pedro Mrtir whiptail with the tigris species group. A combination of small body size (snout vent length of 80 mm or less), distinctive melanistic dorsal and ventral color patterns, and a distinctive ensemble of scutellation characters is presented as strong presumptive evidence that the potential for reproductive isolation has evolved. C. martyris is treated herein as one among seven distinctive allospecies (allopatric species) in the superspecies C. tigris. C. martyris is most closely related to the whiptail populations of Islas San Pedro Nolasco (C. bacatus); Santa Catalina (C. catalinensis); San Lorenzo Sur, San Lorenzo Norte, and Salsipuedes (C. canus); San Esteban (C. estebanensis); Smith (Cnemidophorus undescribed). Although these insular populations share a number of morphological similarities, each taxon is recognizable by a distinctive combination of color, pattern and scutellation characters.
10.2307/3670587|Anatomical and histological data were used to evaluate reproduction by Cnemidophorus inornatus at 1600-2000 m elevation in central Arizona. Adults were active May-August, with spermiogenesis and oogenesis occurring primarily May-June, 1976. Females produced only one egg clutch that year. Large yearling males initiated spermatogenesis, but actual breeding by those individuals was questionable. Yearling females lacked signs of gonadal maturation. Hatchlings appeared in August and grew significantly by September. Adults and juveniles stored body fat prior to brumation. Reproductive seasonality in montane C. inornatus differs from that of populations at lower elevations, but is similar to that of whiptails at northerly latitudes. Reproductive adaptations by whiptails to habitats with short or long activity seasons are discussed.
10.2307/3670588|Crater development and dimensions were dimensions were determined by observing 66 Myrmecocystus mexicanus nests in the Garden of the Gods area for periods up to 453 days. Crater development varies from none to well-constructed cones 68 mm high. Crater dimensions change seasonally and sometimes daily in response to weather conditions and worker activity. The entrance is a large symmetrical opening with a mean diameter of 12 mm, which is likely to be closed after a heavy rain and during the winter. Six double-entrance nests were located. Subsurface architecture and population size were determined from four complete and three partial excavations. The entrance opens into a vertical or oblique passage about 10 cm long before branching into a labyrinth of horizontal passages and small chambers arranged asymmetrically about it and extending to depths of 20 cm. Only open vertical passage descends from the subsurface labyrinth to domed replete chambers below. Upper replete chambers tend to be smaller, more numerous, and closer together than lower ones. The first repletes, 1 to 12 in number, occur at depths of 17 to 51 cm. Replete chambers per colony vary in number from 7 to 21, and the number of repletes per chamber ranges from 1 to 348. Replete chambers range from 5.1-33 cm in length, 3-24 cm in width, and 1-5 cm in height. Nests ranged from 0.97 to 1.8 m in depth. Each nest houses about 5,000 ants, of which 22-25% exhibit abdominal distension. The number of repletes in each nest varies from 351 to 1030. The maximum number of winged reproductives is 209 queens and 100-110 males. One wingless queen is present in each nest.
10.2307/3670589|Feeding ecology of the spikedace, Meda fulgida, was investigated from July 1966 to August 1967. Foods eaten by 505 fish consited primarily of mayfly adults (36.5%) and nymphs (33.3%). Unidentified animal material and larval dipterans each made up an additiona 9%. There were seasonal trends in dominant food organisms eaten, with mayflies making up 80% in spring and early summer and <40% in late summer and autumn. Dipteran larvae decreased in importance with increase in fish size, with a concomitant increase in importance of mayfly nymphs and adults. There was diel periodicity in feeding intensity with a peak in late afternoon and early evening. Fish occupying pools fed exclusively on mayflies, but those in riffles and runs contained more diversified foods.
10.2307/3670590|Three trapping grids, 225 m on a side, where established in the desert of southern New Mexico. On grid 1 all Dipodomys (Heteromyidae, Rodentia) were removed; on grid 2 all Perognathus (Heteromyidae, Rodentia) were removed; and on grid 3 no rodents were removed. All grids were censused at two-week intervals for six weeks. When the larger Dipodomys (40g) were removed, the Perognathus (15g) population increased 2.56-fold (from 27 to 69 individuals) in two weeks. Removal of Perognathus had no effect on numbers of Dipodomys. Our data allow us to estimate the magnitude of the competition between Dipodomys and Perognathus.
10.2307/3670591|Changes in rodent species diversity in three southern California mediterranean scrub communities were monitored by seasonal live-trapping from the summer of 1975 through the spring of 1978, which included two years of severe drought. Species diversity decreased steadily during the course of the drought, and with the resumption of normal amounts of precipitation returned to the original levels. The community compositions after the drought, in terms of the species represented and the relative abundances of each, were very similar to the pre-drought communities. With one exception, all species at each study site underwent a decrease in population density, but the rates of decrease were largely asynchronous and there were few significant correlations between species. The exception to the general decreasing trend was Reithrodontomys megalotis, which increased at one study area to become the most numerous species of the community at the height of the drought, and then returned to its original low frequency.
10.2307/3670592|Biogeographic relationships of Pappogeomys castanops, Thomomys bottae, and Geomys bursarius were studied at the margins of their ranges in southeastern Colorado. The distributions of P. castanops and T. bottae overlap by nearly 5 km on Mesa de Maya but are allopatric below the mesa. In the zone of sympatry, where these two species occupy adjacent burrows in the same soils and vegetation, the average depths of their feeding burrows differ significantly. This relationship apparently represents an intermediate stage in competitive exclusion, which influences the biogeography of P. castanops and T. bottae in southeastern Colorado. The distributions of P. castanops and G. bursarius overlap by nearly 65 km below Mesa de Maya, but this overlap represents parapatry rather than sympatry. The biogeographic relationship of P. castanops and G. bursarius in southeastern Colorado is the result of ecological specialization, agricultural activities, and the Dust Bowl of the 1930s.
10.2307/3670593|Data collected from 675 active Northern Mockingbird (Mimus polyglottos) nests in northern Louisiana from 1963-1979 were analyzed. Nesting began in early March and continued through early August. Completed clutches contained 2-6 <tex-math>$(\overline{\text{x}}=3.7\pm 0.05)$</tex-math> eggs; broods contained 1-5 <tex-math>$(\overline{\text{x}}=3.2\pm 0.05)$</tex-math> nestlings. Eggs usually hatched after 13 days of incubation and nestlings fledged 12 days later. A minimum of 42 plant species was used as nesting sites. Average nest height increased as the season progressed. Variation in the number of young fledged was evaluated. The Mayfield exposure method was used to determine the probability of surviving the nesting period. Abandonment and predation were the major causes of nest losses.
10.2307/3670594|Scanning electron and light microscopic studies of mericarps (nutlets) of the Great Plains species of Scutellaria have proven useful taxonomically. Each species produces mericarps with a unique suite of morphological characters from the following classes: fruit color, size and shape; conformation of papillae; and epidermal cell type and pattern. This information supports the reduction of S. wrightii to synonomy with S. resinosa, and the treatment of S. parvula as having three varieties, rather than as three separate species.
10.2307/3670595|Thirteen locations along a 56 kilometer portion of the Mimbres River were sampled using thirty-meter line intercept sampling units. A pattern of riparian species replacements with progression along an elevational gradient was found. However, dominant species associations, dominances, and age structures were varied and inconsistent among the stands studied. Evidence indicated these erratic vegetation patterns may be due, in part, to varied and long term mancaused disturbance. Absence of stability and a normal age class distribution of the vegetation may be due to browsing and trampling of root sprouts and seedlings by domestic livestock.
10.2307/3670596|In a duneland dominated by mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa var. torreyana) twelve mesquite-dune complexes were analyzed in order to determine relationships between plant age, plant canopy size, and dune size. In addition, surface Indian artifacts were measured along the study transect which centered through remnants of an Indian campsite. These data were collected in an attempt to investigate the theory that mesquite is at least partially responsible for the initiation and continuation of the dune building process on the Jornada Plains. Plant age was significantly related to the volume of the plant canopy, and to the volume of the dune. Surface artifact densities tended to be highest in areas of greater dune formation, which suggests that artifacts are more visible in areas of greater soil erosion. The ring numbers, taken from these samples do support earlier observations that there has been a recent and rapid increase of mesquite on the Jornada Plains.
10.2307/3671380|A long-term study of the aquatic biotopes of the Piceance Basin has enabled analyses of macroinvertebrate communities along spatial (downstream) and temporal (year-to-year) gradients of environmental conditions. Cluster analysis indicates four distinct aquatic habitat types: spring sources, springbrooks, and the middle and lower reaches of Piceance Creek. Spatial differences in temperature and flow constancy influence habitat stability with respect to substrate, degree-day distribution, ice conditions, and the distribution and abundance of aquatic macrophytes. Despite great differences in thermal patterns, total annual degree-days were ca. 3000 in all four habitat types. The principal energy source for macroinvertebrates in autochthonous detritus. Trophic structure shifts from shredders-collectors-scrapers in the headwaters to collectors-predators in lower reaches. Year-to-year variations in discharge altered the density and composition of macroinvertebrates, and were reflected in the thermal regimes at mainstream locations. Data suggest that groundwater discharge from upper reaches is important in maintaining the structural and functional integrity of aquatic systems in the Piceance Basin.
10.2307/3671381|The 81 species of ants collected in the Chisos Mountains, Texas showed high diversity and low dominance. Twelve taxa were new records for Texas. Characteristic ant assemblages were recognized for lechuguilla grasslands, canyons, pinyon-juniper-oak and high forest associations. The Chisos offer an island of woodland in north-south distribution of ant species, and the availability of these woodlands may result in the recorded large number of ant species per unit area. Most species prefer relatively thick canopy, some leaf litter, a gentle slope, and nest under rock or with a crater.
10.2307/3671382|Feeding habits and aggressive abilities of Black-chinned hummingbirds (Archilochus alexandri) and Lucifer hummingbirds (Calothorax lucifer) at flowering century plants (Agave havardiana Trel.) were examined. Archilochus males established territories at Agave in open microhabitats while most Calothorax were non-territorial and foraged at undefended Agave in densely-vegetated sites. Variations in the foraging behaviors of the birds coincided with annual fluctuations in the resource base. Despite such variations, partitioning of Agave by both species was maintained by the aggressiveness of dominant Archilochus males.
10.2307/3671383|The breeding ecology of the Cactus Wren was studied during three years. Significant differences in clutch size, breeding success, and the timing of clutch initiation were observed between years. The differences are related to annual differences in the abundance and emergence of the major food of nestlings. Long-term temperature patterns were analyzed for predictability and show that, on the average, Cactus Wrens initiated clutches during a period when high temperatures predicted favorable temperatures for the period when they would be feeding nestlings. Several factors that appear to affect clutch initiation in the Cactus Wren are discussed.
10.2307/3671384|Aquilegia micrantha occurs in canyons of the Southwestern United States. The pinkish-yellow flowers are nodding or semi-nodding, mildly scented, protandrous, and secrete a concentrated nectar (46% total sugars). Seed set in flowers under pollinator exclosures was 25% compared with 63% for open-pollinated flowers. The most common and effective pollinators of A. micrantha in the upper Crystal River Canyon were nectar-foraging bumblebee queens, Bombus appositus and B. flavifrons, although hummingbirds and hawkmoths also visited the flowers, and hummingbirds are important pollinators at other sites. The absence of nectar-foraging Bombus queens on the red flowers of A. elegantula in the area is probably the result of the narrower spur mouths of A. elegantula that prevent the bees from inserting their heads deeply enough into the flowers to extract the nectar. This mechanical isolation may be important in restricting hybridization between the two species in the narrow elevational range of sympatry.
10.2307/3671385|The razorback sucker population of the lower Colorado River basin is now reduced to scattered individuals in all but Lake Mohave, Arizona-Nevada. That population consists of large, slowly-growing fish, which are proposed to be nearly 30 years old, presumably having hatched when the reservoir was filling in the early 1950s. The species comprised about 12.5% of all fishes taken by trammel netting in Lake Mohave in the period 1974-82. No recruitment into the population has been detected in that period, despite repeated observations of spawning and records of fertilized eggs and hatched larvae. Sex ratios, sexual dimorphism, and fecundity all indicate the fish to be reproductively capable despite a high incidence of disease. The species is now under artificial propagation, and is being reintroduced within its native range. Predation by introduced fishes on early life-history stages or razorback sucker is considered the most important factor in their decline.
10.2307/3671386|Aquatic invertebrates were collected from the West Fork of Oak Creek, Coconino County, Arizona from April, 1977 through March, 1978. The mean annual standing crop was
10.2307/3671387|Six external and 26 cranial measurements were evaluated using stepwise discriminant analysis to determine their utility in discriminating five species of Peromyscus from south-central New Mexico. A classification function with eight variables enables correct identification of over 90% of the specimens studied. Implications of morphological relationships among these Peromyscus to their ecological relationships also is discussed.
10.2307/3671388|Contiguous north facing slopes, south facing slopes, arroyos, and shoreline at Punta Cirio, Sonora, Mexico support distinct plant communities. Arroyos and north slopes are the habitats that are most similar in vegetation structure. The shoreline, dominated by Frankenia palmeri and Lycium californicum, has the most distinctive vegetation type. Several species are exclusive to one habitat. Of the 13 major species, only Opuntia bigelovii and Jatropha cuneata, the most important species, occur in all four habitats. The shoreline habitat is the least diverse and has the greatest cover and tallest vegetation. South slopes are also low in diversity, but have the least cover. Cover and plant height, but not density, increase with descending elevation on north and south slopes. In arroyos, vegetation height increases with distance from the Gulf. Species differ in response to the gradients. For example, height of Euphorbia misera increases inland, while Ambrosia dumosa decreases in size.
10.2307/3671389|Opuntia parryi, which has cylindroidal stems, and O. littoralis, which has flattened stems, are commonly found in the mixed chaparral-inland coastal sage association of southern California. Both species occur with a similar set of shade-providing shrubs in this association but their position relative to these shrubs differs: O. parryi is found in open sites away from the canopy of the shrubs while O. littoralis occurs both in open sites and under the canopy of the shrubs. Internal stem temperatures for unshaded sites suggest that the platyopuntia, O. littoralis, may be exposed to excessive heat loads. However, the cylindropuntia, O. parryi, remains well below ambient temperatures in unshaded sites. In contrast both species follow ambient temperatures closely when they are found within the canopy of an associated shrub. The flattened stems of O. littoralis may, however, provide greater access to photosynthetically active radiation than the cylindroidal stems of O. parryi. The terminal cladodes of O. littoralis in the open grow so that they face east-west and minimize the heat load buildup that would be experienced by north-south facing cladodes.
10.2307/3671390|Rogers Spring, Clark County, Nevada has been the recipient of at least 14 fish introductions since the 1950's. These included one clupeid, two (and possibly three) cyprinids, one clariid, six poeciliids and three cichlids. The known history of this introduced ichthyofauna is reviewed. Tilapia mariae and Poecilia reticulata were discovered in Rogers Spring in 1980. Since this spring has served as a transfer point for introductions elsewhere in Nevada, a consideration of the potential environmental impress of such introductions is included.
10.2307/3671391|A new species, Cheiroseius areolacus is described from Texas and a key has been constructed for the seven members of the genus Cheiroseius known to occur in the United States.
10.2307/3671392|Helianthus anomalus is a rare endemic to sand dune and swale habitats in southern Utah and northern Arizona. It is known from less than 25 localities, often with fewer than 250 plants in each locale. Several populations persist in fields around Third Mesa on the Hopi Indian Reservation, near one of the oldest continuously inhabited villages in North America. In at least one field-orchard complex, it is consciously protected or tolerated by Hopi farmers, for this sunflower's ceremonial significance.
10.2307/3670784|A comparison of the Arkansas and South Platte River floodplains in eastern Colorado revealed a number of common community types and notable differences which affected the plant associations found in this rapidly disappearing ecosystem. Six community types common to both drainages included: the cottonwood (Populus sargentii) community; the narrow-leaf willow (Salix spp.) community; a mixed community consisting of various combinations of P. sargentii, Salix interior, Salix exigua, Salix amygdaloides, Tamarix chinensis, and other tree species; an open park community; a cattail-marsh community; and a slough community. A seventh community type, the salt cedar (T. chinensis) community, was found only on the Arkansas River and covered approximately one-third of this floodplain. Distichlis stricta (salt grass) was the most common species found along both drainages; however, P. sargentii clearly dominated the floodplains. The vegetation of the South Platte drainage was relatively stable while that of the Arkansas drainage appeared to be undergoing a change to more alkaline-salt tolerant species. Flooding, grazing, and the invasion of T. chinensis were the three major factors influencing the composition and spread of species along both drainages.
10.2307/3670785|Tooth formation and replacement were analyzed in 41 specimens of Scomberomorus cavalla. Teeth of this species are laterally compressed blades adapted for cutting action on prey. Development of each tooth begins at the tip and proceeds toward the base. New tooth buds form in a resorption cavity in the base of an older tooth. Resorption occurs at two points on each tooth: in the base and in the anterior-posterior edges just above the jawline. Teeth pass through seven stages of development and resorption, but remain longest in the preeruptive and primary functional stages. Replacement occurs in overlapping waves in alternate tooth loci. Replacement waves may be flat, progress from the rear to front, or progress front to rear. Most replacement data can be adapted to either the Zahnreihen concept of Edmund (1960, 1969) or the tooth family concept of Osborn (1971, 1972, 1974). One tooth germ failure, causing the crossing of replacement waves, is noted.
10.2307/3670786|A key is presented for the identification of free-living aquatic salamander larvae and larviform adults of Arkansas, Kansas, Missouri, and Oklahoma. Multistage characters are presented for species that are difficult to identify because of ontogenetic variation.
10.2307/3670787|The orange and yellow coloration of female Holbrookia propinqua appears to be closely associated with ovarian events, intensifying rapidly during the final stages of vitellogenesis and reaching maximum brightness prior to ovulation. All females having recent corpora lutea or bearing oviducal eggs retained bright colors. Females with the dullest colors lacked orange and yellow pigmentation, had relatively small follicles, and were at early stages of the reproductive cycle. Further studies are needed to determine the course of chromatic variation between successive reproductive cycles and to evaluate the turn-on and turn-off hypotheses of the adaptive value of the female reproductive coloration.
10.2307/3670788|Based on sightings during low-altitude aerial surveys, 21-30 September 1979, the total number of marine turtles off South Texas--Aransas to Brownsville, inland coast to 18 m contour--was estimated conservatively as 19.0  .6. Turtles seen were probably loggerheads or Kemp's ridleys. One large turtle was seen in Laguna Madre adjacent to Mansfield Cut. All other sightings occurred along the Gulf coast of Padre Island. Usefulness of such aerial surveys in estimating density of marine turtles is discussed.
10.2307/3670789|Field tests quantifying the behavioral responses of ants to the seeds of twenty Rocky Mountain species were conducted in Gunnison County, Colorado. The results indicate that Claytonia lanceolata Pursh, Corydalis aurea Willd., C. caseana A. Gray., Delphinium nelsoni Greene, and Viola nuttallii Pursh are myrmecochores. The seeds of these species all bear a conspicuous elaiosome and are selectively removed by three species of ants, Formica podzolica Francoeur, Formica canadensis Francoeur, and Myrmica discontinua Weber. These are the first records of ant dispersal from the Rocky Mountains.
10.2307/3670790|The seasonal change in movement of workers between four nests of the ant Formica haemorrhoidalis Emery was observed in southern California, USA. Most of the internest movement occurred during the spring. There was little evidence that workers moved from smaller nests back to the largest nest during the fall to overwinter. Many individual ants moved between three different nests.
10.2307/3670791|A revision of the Samolus ebracteatus--cuneatus complex is presented recognizing five varieties of S. ebracteatus: S.e. var. ebracteatus from the Caribbean and Florida; var. alyssoides from coastal Texas to Mexico; var. cuneatus from inland Texas to Nevada and central Mexico; var. coahuilensis (var. nov.) from central Coahuila; and var. breviflorus (var. nov.) from southern Mexico.
10.2307/3670792|An annotated key to dorsal guard hair from 25 mammal species of economic importance in Arkansas is presented. Diagnostic characters include length, width, color and pattern, and medullary configuration.
10.2307/3670793|A potential organochlorine pesticide problem was identified near Mission, Texas, by the National Pesticide Monitoring Program. Fish samples from this site have consistently contained elevated levels of DDE since 1968. Surveys were made in 1976, 1978, and 1979 to determine the extent of organochlorine pesticide contamination in fishes and birds of the area. Freshwater fishes of the Arroyo Colorado, a major waterway traversing the lower Rio Grande Valley, were highly contaminated with DDE and toxaphene residues compared to samples from other areas in the Valley; both DDE and toxaphene ranged up to 31.5 ppm wet weight in whole-fish composite samples. In addition, median DDE residues in fish-eating bird carcasses from this area ranged up to 34 ppm wet weight, and 81 ppm in individual specimens. The levels of contaminants detected in fishes and birds were within, or above, the range producing adverse effects in certain species. The major sources of contamination to the Arroyo Colorado system likely stem from past and present use of persistent pesticides on surrounding croplands, and possibly from an abandoned pesticide plant at Mission, Texas.
10.2307/3670794|Mourning Dove (Zenaida macroura) cooing activity and nesting were studied along 1 call count and 2 breeding bird survey routes in northeastern Colorado from late March through October, 1978 and 1979. Number of nests found varied from 135 in 1978 to 46 in 1979. There was no consistent relationship between number of doves cooing and number of nests on study sites adjacent to the survey routes. There is little evidence that number of mourning dove nests in a local area can be estimated from call count data.
10.2307/3670795|Above-ground nocturnal activity of male Dipodomys ordii was monitored, in April and May 1980, by direct observation in central Utah using a red spotlight. Activity peaked shortly after sunset, and continued intermittently until shortly before dawn. Nightly air temperatures are highest just after sunset and it is suggested that Dipodomys ordii decreases activity toward the latter part of the night to save thermoregulatory energy. Ninety-five percent of the time on the surface was spent foraging. The amount of surface activity per night averaged 63 minutes.
10.2307/3670796|Tobosagrass (Hilaria mutica) was prescribed burned in mid-February and late March. Sequential harvests were used to compare growth curves from the different burn dates to an unburned control. Crude protein concentration, moisture content, and digestible organic matter were determined for all samples. Final yields taken in late July were 2,357, 1,950, and 620 kg/ha for the mid-February burn, late March burn, and control, respectively. At growth intitiation, crude protein concentration for new growth varied from about 15 to 20% then decreased to about 7% by July. Moisture content of tobosagrass from burned areas decreased from about 65% early in the growing period to below 30% in July. Moisture content of the control (old standing dead + new growth) increased to a high of over 30% in early May, then decreased below 20% by July. Digestibility of new growth from all treatments were similar by sampling date and varied from about 40 to 60%. Old standing dead digestibility varied from 14 to 23%.
10.2307/3670797|Twelve species of Trichoptera are newly reported from New Mexico. Most of these records were expected, and annotations of previously known ranges are provided. Hydroptila denza Ross is reported for the first time north of Mexico and a significant southwestern range extension of Protoptila erotica Ross is also included.
10.2307/3670798|Sonoran creosotebush seedlings are larger than plants of the Mojave, which are larger than Chihuahuan plants. However, total biomass, shoot biomass, and root biomass from each of three deserts increased at the same relative growth rate of 3% per day. The root:shoot biomass was found to be similar among plants of the three desert groups, but to vary between age classes. The ratio increased from 0.33 at 15 days to 0.49 at 75 days, and then decreased to 0.42 at 150 days. The roots were found to contain significantly less energy (<tex-math>$4.1\text{cal}\cdot \text{mg}^{-1}$</tex-math>) than shoots (<tex-math>$4.7\text{cal}\cdot \text{mg}^{-1}$</tex-math>).
10.2307/3670799|The effect of Hurricane Allen (Aug. 10, 1980) on the near-shore vegetation of South Padre Island was assessed by comparing data obtained in line transects before and after the hurricane. Eight species of plants were present in the Backshore Zone prior to the hurricane; after the hurricane, only three species were present and percent cover was only 11% of that before the hurricane. The foredunes of this zone were completely leveled and a belt of Sesuvium portulacastrum was obliterated. Conversely, plants of the taller Primary Dune Zone were not greatly disturbed by the hurricane. Numbers of species and percent cover were similar in pre- and post-hurricane transects. However, before the hurricane, Ipomoea stolonifera was dominant on both the windward and leeward slopes. After the hurricane, Uniola paniculata was dominant on the windward slopes and Schizachyrium scoparium was dominant on the leeward slopes. Apparently, low-growing, shallow-rooted species such as Sesuvium portulacastrum and Ipomoea stolonifera are more greatly affected than grasses because they are more easily dislodged or covered by sand transported by water surges.
10.2307/3670817|Gopherus berlandieri was studied on a 3.3 ha grid in Cameron Co., Texas for five years. One hundred two tortoises were marked (43 males, 30 females, 26 juv., and 3 adults whose sex was not determined). Numbers of males and females did not differ significantly. Juveniles comprised 27% to 9% of the population and maximum population density was 15 to 16 tortoises per ha. The number of females remained constant, but males and juveniles declined gradually from 1972 to 1975, then markedly in 1976. The percentage of shared individuals in successive years was higher for females than males, but only 58% of the females captured in 1972 were captured in 1976. No juveniles captured in 1972 were captured in 1976. Capture points of tortoises were clustered within the center 25% of the estimated home range. Comparison of mean home range size calculated in this study with data presented by Rose and Judd (1975) showed no significant changes in mean size in males or females.
10.2307/3670818| A total of 22 parasitic species (representing 18 genera), were encountered during the examination of 1,695 fishes representing 12 native species from 13 localities in Arizona and New Mexico. The parasites include six Protozoa: Ichthyophthirius multifiliis Fouquet, 1876, Myxobolus catostomi Fantham et al., 1939, M. discrepans Kudo, 1920, M. macrocapsularis Reuss, 1906, M. nodularis Southwell and Prashad, 1918, M. oblongus; six Trematoda: Tetraonchus sp., Clinostomum marginatum Rud., 1819, Ornithodiplostomum ptychocheilus Dubois, 1936, Plagioporus sp., Crepidostomum cooperi Hopkins, 1931, and C. farionis (of Mller, 1784) Nicoll, 1909; four Cestoda: Ligula intestinalis Linnaeus, 1758, Isoglaridacris bulbocirrus Mackiewicz, 1965, Ophiotaenia critica Mpoame and Landers, 1981, Proteocephalus sp.; one Acantocephala: Neoechinorhynchus sp.; four Nematoda: Dacnitoides sp., Camallanus sp., Rhabdochona decaturensis Gustafson, 1949, Metabronema salvelini (Fujita, 1922); and one Crustacea: Lernaea cyprinacea Linnaeus, 1761. Seven of these parasites are belived to represent undescribed species and almost all the present parasite reports constitute new host and locality records. Patterns of distribution in space (host and locality specificities) are discussed. Infection levels of all parasites encountered were independent of host sex, suggesting that males and females of the fishes studied are very similar in feeding behavior and habitat selection. Although a number of parasitic species reported may cause damage to individual infected hosts, I. multifiliis seems to be the only of special pathogenic importance for Arizona native fishes. 
10.2307/3670819|A fossil roadrunner from interstadial deposits (ca. 33,590 BP) in New Mexico is identified as Geococcyx californianus. Fossil remains from California, dating from the subsequent late Wisconsinan stadial, have been assigned to the same taxon. However, approximately contemporaneous populations of larger-sized individuals occurring inland have been named G. conklingi. This taxon also has been recognized as surviving into the early Holocene before becoming extinct. This geographic and temporal pattern is hypothesized as being the result of local adaptations for temperature regulation: hot summer temperatures result in heat stress, resulting in selection against large individuals that otherwise would be best adapted for winter cold; absence of hot temperatures allows selection for large-sized individuals. The inland population of large-sized roadrunners, then, was a geographic and temporal subspecies, G. californianus conklingi.
10.2307/3670820|Ten species of Trichoptera are newly reported from New Mexico. Most of these records were expected, and annotations of previously known ranges are provided. Hydroptila denza Ross is reported for the first time north of Mexico.
10.2307/3670821|The only microarthropod taxon found at all sample stations in a gypsum sand dune field was the mite Speleorchestes sp., family Nanorchestidae. The highest densities and largest number of taxa of microarthropods (Acari and Collembala) were under shrubs at the edge of the dune field. Changes in number of taxa and density were directly correlated with temperature and rainfall. During the warmer months, the microarthropod fauna was dominated by tydeid and tarsonemid mites under shrubs on dunes, and pyemotid mites in interdune spaces. The densities, number of taxa and taxonomic composition of the gypsum dune microarthropod fauna were similar to those found in non-gyphic soils on a nearby desert watershed.
10.2307/3670822|Elimination of microarthropods by treating plant litter with the insecticide chlordane (TM) reduced decomposition by between 40 and 69 percent. Insecticide treatment and simultaneous suppression of fungi with benomyl and captan reduced decomposition by between 76 and 90 percent of untreated litter. Tarsonemid mites were the most abundant soil microarthropods in the litter during most of the year. Collembola and Psocoptera were extracted from litter bags following wet, cool periods. The presence of soil microarthropods uncoupled decomposition processes from abiotic constraints.
10.2307/3670823| A population of the San Diego pocket mouse, Perognathus fallax, from San Diego County, California, was monitored by monthly live trapping from September, 1978, through August, 1980. Peaks in population size were observed each spring and the precise timing of these peaks varied between years. A dramatic decline in density occurred as the study was concluded in the summer of 1980. Reproductive activity displayed significant seasonal heterogeneity, with the highest proportions of breeding adults being observed in the spring. Similarly, survival was also found to vary seasonally, with significantly lower survival in the spring. There were no significant differences in survival rates between sexes. The average P. fallax remained on the study site for 5.2  1.4 months after first capture. 
10.2307/3670824| Germination of mescal bean seeds is restricted by an impermeable seed coat. Soaking seeds in concentrated sulfuric acid for 15-90 min increased germination from 64-72%. Germination was  71% at constant temperatures of 20, 25, and 30C, and at alternating temperatures of 15-25 and 20-30C. Germination and radicle length were sensitive to osmotic potentials of polyethylene glycol solutions of -1 bars, and no germination occurred at -8 bars. Percent germination and seedling radicle length were significantly reduced in an aqueous solution 2,500 ppm NaCl and were progressively delayed by increasing salinity up to 10,000 ppm. The osmotic potentials of the NaCl solutions had little effect on germination. Seed germinated over a wide pH range; however, at pH 2 and 12, percent germination was significantly reduced. Radicle elongation was slightly more sensitive to extreme acid conditions than germination. Light was not required for germination and no dormancy mechanisms were observed other than the hard seed coats. Seed viability was not significantly reduced after storage of seeds at room conditions for 2 yr. Optimum mescal been seedling emergence occurred when seeds were covered with 1 or 2 cm of soil. 
10.2307/3670825|Based upon a numerical index constructed from five characters, Proboscidea louisianica from the Great Plains and the midwestern United States is clearly differentiable from P. fragrans from central Mexico. In contrast, these taxa intergrade in Trans-Pecos Texas and northcentral Mexico, where their variational pattern resembles a mosaic of both intermediate forms and plants readily assigned to a species. Because of this intergradation, and many other biological similarities between them, these taxa are reduced to subspecies. As delimited here, P. louisianica ssp. louisianica is a relatively homogeneous taxon distinguished from the extremely variable, polymorphic P. louisianica ssp. fragrans by leaf form and by the color of the corolla, anthers, and hypocotyls/cotyledons.
10.2307/3670826|Habenaria integra is considered rare in Louisiana and Mississippi and is excluded as a part of the Texas flora, the only record being based on misdetermination.
10.2307/3670827|Antiphytum hintoniorum is described from outcrops of gypsum in north-central Mexico. It is known from only two sites near Cerro Potosi in the state of Nuevo Leon and is notable for its dwarf shrubby habit and ashy-gray, opposite, acicular leaves. Nevertheless, it has a floral structure typical for Antiphytum and, except for its habit, stands relatively close to A. peninsulare.
10.2307/3670763|The nocturnal activity of Peromyscus truei was investigated on a seasonal basis for one year. Females showed bimodal activity patterns during all seasons. Males were unimodal in the winter and differed significantly from the females during the spring. Activity was positively related to ambient temperature and negatively related to moonlight during the fall and winter months. Summer activity was positively related to cloud cover. Weather variables were good predictors of P. truei activity during the fall but less so during other seasons.
10.2307/3670764|Home ranges of Peromyscus truei and Dipodomys panamintinus were investigated using circular and principal component estimation techniques. During the fall, winter and spring months male P. truei maintained home ranges which were significantly larger than those of the females. The home range sizes of both sexes increased significantly during the summer. This increase was noted for both adults and juveniles. Male D. panamintinus had annual home ranges which did not differ significantly in size from those of female D. panamintinus. Habitat differences existed between the home ranges of male and female D. panamintinus but not between those of P. truei.
10.2307/3670765|Oenothera speciosa is clonal and partially self-incompatible. Based on data from our studies seed-set is dependent on pollen transfer by floral visitors. Observations of foraging behavior and pollen transfer loads showed that honeybees were the most important pollinators. The pollen deposition function of honeybees on Oenothera speciosa declines exponentially with sequence of flower, so that only the first one or two flowers visited in a clone are expected to receive adequate pollen doses. Deficits in seed-set in field populations probably result from low frequency of effective pollinators and incompatible intraclonal pollinations.
10.2307/3670766|A survey of the Colorado River drainage in Colorado was made during the summer-fall of 1979-1981 to determine the distribution of larval Colorado squawfish (Ptychochielus lucius) and to relate their occurrence to the hydrological regime. Squawfish larvae were collected in the lowermost 31 km of the mainstem Colorado River in 1979-1981 and the lowermost 29 km of the Yampa River in 1980-1981. Larval squawfish were not found in collections from either the White or Gunnison rivers. Sampling effort appeared to have no effect on collection success, but collection success did appear to reflect reproductive success and/or larval survivorship. Estimates of spawning periods for the Colorado River range from as early as 18 June in 1981 to as late as 26 August in 1980. In the Yampa, we estimate that spawning occurred as early as 16 June in 1980 and as late as 3 August in 1981. Our observations and spawning period estimates support the hypothesis that reproductive success is related to both the flow and temperature regimes; however, other exogenous (e.g. photoperiod, water quality, etc.) and biotic factors (e.g. competition, predation) have yet to be adequately investigated.
10.2307/3670767|Occurrences of land snails are reported and their distribution (especially altitudinal) is discussed in the San Andres and Organ Mountains of southern New Mexico. Collections were made at 50 localities and 24 species were obtained.
10.2307/3670768|The parasitoids of the immature stages of Prodoxus, Tegeticula and Parategeticula moths from Yucca whipplei, Y. brevifolia, Y. schidigera and Y. schottii were observed and collected. Certain life history data including the host species, type of parasitization, developmental characteristics, potential numbers of progeny, sex ratio and amount of host parasitization are recorded for most of the species.
10.2307/3670769|A new species, Ageratina hintoniorum, belonging to the subgenus Neogreenella K. & R., is described from southern Mexico. It is related to A. marietiana and is remarkable for its large involucres and few-headed capitulescence.
10.2307/3670770|Como resultado de un ao de muestreos sistemticos en el litoral de Baha de Todos Santos (3145N), costa occidental de Mxico, se citan 13 nuevas especies para la fauna carcinolgica mexicana. Entre ellas se menciona por primera vez para el Pacfico a Ogyrides alphaerostris (Kingsley), ampliamente distribudo en el Atlntico, y se describe a Eualus subtilis, que se compara con las dems especies del gnero. /// Sampling to a depth of 25 m with a small trawl (0.5 cm mesh) and using SCUBA equipment during one year in Baha de Todos Santos (3145N) on the West coast of Baja California, Mxico, has given southward range extensions for 11 species of caridean shrimps; Ogyrides alphaerostris is reported for the first time from the Pacific Ocean; Eualus subtilis n.sp. is described and compared with other species in the genus; ecological and biological observations for each of the 13 species are included.
10.2307/3670771|Apache cicadas (Diceroprocta apache) occurred in extremely dense populations from late June through August, with peak densities in late July. Cicada reproductive performance was dependent on the plant species used for oviposition. Although cottonwood (Populus fremontii), willow (Salix gooddingii), and seepwillow (Baccharis spp.) contained the greatest number of eggs per twig, salt cedar (Tamarix chinensis) communities sustained the highest total cicada reproduction, since the dense, branching growth form of salt cedar provided the greatest number of oviposition sites. It is conceivable that the greatly increased occurrence of salt cedar in the Southwest, and to a lesser degree urban decorative landscaping and agriculture, have resulted in increased populations of Apache cicadas. The annually high local population densities of this short-lived insect enable it to survive intensive predation by birds.
10.2307/3670772|Forty-year old second-growth noncommericial forest stands developed on abandoned farmland in the northeast corner of Texas are usually dominated by oaks, hickories, and elms, with pine as a minor component in the forest. The leading dominant tree species is post oak, and species composition resembles that of nearby old-growth upland forests. The average stand has 15 tree species, 1467 stems/ha larger than 2cm dbh, and a basal area of <tex-math>$23.5\ \text{m}^{2}/\text{ha}$</tex-math>.
10.2307/3670773|Adult canine heartworms (Dirofilaria immitis) were found in the hearts of 127 of 193 (65.8%) coyotes (Canis latrans), 1 of 26 (3.8%) red foxes (Vulpes vulpes), and 3 of 163 (1.8%) gray foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) collected from fur buyers of northeast Arkansas. Coyote infections were clearly heavier than fox infections. D. immitis microfilariae were observed in worms taken from coyotes and the red fox but not from gray foxes. Coyotes are considered an integral element of D. immitis epizootiology in northeast Arkansas; red foxes and gray foxes are not.
10.2307/3670774|A survey of Colfax County, New Mexico was conducted to determine the distribution and abundance of tiger beetles, genus Cicindela, among habitats. Nineteen species were found from 50 sites representing eight habitat types. Based on habitat preference four groups of tiger beetles were recognized. Grassland species (C. longilabris, C. purpurea, C. obsoleta, C. pulchra, C. pusilla) showed elevational segregation and occurred at low densities with few or no other species. Sand flat species (C. formosa, C. lengi, C. scutellaris, C. lepida) were more dense and strictly limited in habitat preference. Fluvial species (C. repanda, C. hirticollis, C. cuprascens, C. nevadica, C. oregona, C. tenuisignata) varied in densities and typically co-occurred with five or more other species along river and lake edges. Generalist species (C. tranquebarica, C. punctulata, C. nigrocoerulea, C. fulgida) were found in all habitats except the montane sites. They were usually at low densities with few other species. The richness of Cicindela species in Colfax County is explained both because of its geographic location relative to various tiger beetle faunal regions and its diversity of habitat types.
10.2307/3670775|Home range size, density, and habitat preference was estimated for a bobcat population on a portion of the Three Bar Wildlife Area, Arizona. Five adult females and two adult males were radio-located 394 times between September 1976 and January 1978. Female and male home ranges averaged <tex-math>$4.8\ \text{km}^{2}$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$9.1\ \text{km}^{2}$</tex-math>, respectively. Home range size varied little within each sex. Female bobcat home ranges tended to be relatively exclusive with respect to other females. The arrangement of male home ranges was less exclusive, and male and female home ranges overlapped extensively. Estimated minimum density of adult resident bobcats was one bobcat per <tex-math>$3.9\ \text{km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Bobcats preferred riparian habitat.
10.2307/3670776|Three closely related species of the ponderosa pine complex occurr sympatrically over portions of their ranges in the southwestern USA: Pinus ponderosa, P. arizonica, and P. engelmannii. Discriminant function analysis and a separate analysis of the presence of diagnostic characters were used to identify three putative three-way hybrids among these species.
10.2307/3670777|Relict populations of the yellow mud turtle, Kinosternon flavescens, occur in Iowa, Illinois, and Missouri associated with sandy soils, ephemeral lentic ponds, and, often, sand prairie communities. The distribution of the turtle in the three-state area is restricted to the Mississippi River basin, the central portion of the Illinois River basin on the east bank, and the Rock River basin in northwestern Illinois. Due, in part, to concern about a supposed dwindling distribution, the form was proposed for listing as an endangered species. In 1979 systematic searches for the species were conducted throughout the known range in the three-state area. Searches resulted in five new county records and a total of nine counties yielded mud turtles. Turtles were not found in five counties from which there were historical records. Given the cryptic nature of the turtle which leads to difficulty in adequately sampling appropriate habitats, we conclude the turtle probably is distributed over a 13-county area, but it is distinctly possible that other counties with suitable sandy soil and ephemeral pond habitats also harbor populations. Our searches discredit the hypothesis that the distribution of the yellow mud turtle in Iowa, Illinois, and Missouri has been significantly reduced in recent historical times.
10.2307/3671020|To test the hypothesis that shorebird clutch size is limited by the number of eggs the parents can cover during incubation, clutches of American avocets (Recurvirostra americana) were experimentally augmented during laying. Five kinds of mortality were observed prior to the birds' departure from the nest site: 1) egg infertility and incomplete embryo development; 2) predation; 3) mechanical egg damage; 4) destruction by weather; and 5) abandoment of last-hatched young. At the levels observed, none of these kinds of mortality could be construed as potentially able to limit the clutch size to 4; augmented clutches produced significantly more chicks per clutch than control clutches.
10.2307/3671021|Time and energy budgets were constructed for three nesting pairs of Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) in the Santa Monica Mountains, Los Angeles County, California, during the 1976 breeding season. Male and female energy expenditure was equal and constant throughout the breeding season at about 109 and 102 kilocalories per kilogram per 24-hour day, respectively. Paired males and females displayed similar patterns in amount of time spent soaring. This increased the visual effect of two birds with respect to defense of territory and protection. Males were more active and spent more time in territorial defense. For both sexes, territorial activity was most intense during courtship and just prior to fledging the young. This suggests a territory maintained for reproductive rather than foraging purposes. The availability of nest sites was likely limiting.
10.2307/3671022|Sutton and Nadler (1974) elevated three of the five previously recognized subspecies of the Townsend chipmunk (Tamias townsendii) to species primarily on the basis of genital bone morphology. We reexamined this complex on the basis of 1) geographical variation in cranial and mandibular morphology and external body measurements of 253 adult specimens, and 2) cladistic analyses of electrophoretic data obtained from 65 specimens. Discriminant function analyses classified specimens more efficiently when the specimens were grouped on the basis of Hall and Kelson's (1959) assignments than when grouped on the basis of Sutton and Nadler's revision. Results of cluster analyses indicated no apparent basis for separation of the five taxa into more than one species, regardless of which classification was used for initial identification. Cladistic analyses yielded a potential classification which differed greatly from Sutton and Nadler's classification. We conclude that available data are insufficient to warrant the changes proposed by Sutton and Nadler. More extensive studies of geographic variation in genital bone morphology and allele frequencies, as well as a better theoretical framework, are needed before the evidently complex relationships within this group can be resolved.
10.2307/3671023|An augmented description of the hitherto monotypic genus Speleketor Gurney is based on examination of two new species and re-examination of the type species (S. flocki Gurney). The new species described in this paper (S. irwini, S. pictus) have type localities in southern California. The type species for the genus was described from the Tucson Mountains of Arizona and is here recorded for the first time in Nevada. The three species differ primarily in head markings, head shape, abdominal markings, and structure of the phallosome. Speleketor is here assigned to Family Prionoglaridae, which hitherto contained the single genus Prionoglaris of Europe and Afghanistan. The two genera are placed in the same family on the basis of: (1) near identity of wing venation; (2) similarity of male external genitalia, and (3) mouthpart specializations seen in early phylogenetic stages in Speleketor and in more derived stages in Prionoglaris. The species of Prionoglaris and S. flocki are troglodytes, while S. irwini occurs on the skirts of dead leaves of the California fan palm, Washingtonia filifera. The habitat of S. pictus remains unknown.
10.2307/3671024|Chemical composition, caloric yield, and water content of 11 seed species were measured to identify 1) seed properties that influence hygroscopic capacity and 2) relationships between preformed water content, metabolic water production, and energetic yield. Preformed water content increased with increasing ambient humidity, and varied significantly among seed species. Preformed water content and total water yield (preformed plus metabolic water) varied significantly among seed species and were positively correlated with carbohydrate content and negatively correlated with lipid and protein content and with caloric content. These results suggest that consumption of different seeds may have marked effects on water balance of desert granivores, and that seed selection on the basis of energetic yield may be expensive in terms of water gain.
10.2307/3671025|Maxium clutch size was 6,199, and eggs hatched in two to three days, with metamorphosis in 15 to 100 days. Ten recently metamorphosed laboratory toads were 1.10  0.11 cm, while wild-caught individuals were 0.84  0.40 cm snout-vent length. Growth was more rapid in females than males, with both reaching adult size in one year or less. Males reached sexual maturity in one year, but females apparently did not do so for two years.
10.2307/3671026|The four species of Leporidae (Mammalia, Lagomorpha) present in Texas for the last 20,000 years, Sylvilagus floridanus, S. audubonii, S. aquaticus, and Lepus californicus, can be identified using discriminant analysis on maxillae, mandibles, and lower third premolars. Analysis of latest Pleistocene leporid faunas from central Texas indicates that with a moister climate the range of S. audubonii was more restricted to the west. Sometime during the early Holocene, S. aquaticus was present at Kincaid Shelter, 100 km west of its current range. Leporids from several sites indicate that the climatic record for the Holocene in western central Texas has been: 9,000-5,000 years BP, more mesic than today; 5,000-3,000 years BP, more xeric than today, 3,000-400 years BP, similar climate as today.
10.2307/3671027|In the coastal Sonoran Desert near Bahia Kino, Sonora, Mexico, changes in plant community composition are correlated with changes in soil salinity and mean soil particle size. The 37 plant species were grouped into 13 growth form categories based primarily on characters reflecting adaptations to low moisture availability. Species within a growth-form category seldom peak in abundance at the same position on the gradient. This suggests that species compete more intensely with members of their own form category than with members of other form categories. Multiple stepwise regressions indicate that soil salinity and texture are primary physical factors correlated with the distribution of plants; these two physical factors combined account for 66-76% of the variance in species and growth form diversity and richness and for 51% of the variance in total plant canopy volume. The halophytes have elevational ranges that are narrow in contrast to those of the low salinity generalists. Halophyte abundances peak in the area of lowest salinity within their range of distribution, suggesting that the more saline areas are not optimal for the halophytes and that an inability to compete with the generalist glycophytes may limit their distributions.
10.2307/3671028|Populations of Atriplex canescens in southern New Mexico and western Texas include diploids (2n = 18), tetraploids (2n = 36), and hexaploids (2n = 54). Tetraploids are the most common and widely distributed cytotype. Diploids are limited to specific areas and hexaploids are rare except in the Rio Grande Valley. Tetraploids occur primarily on finer textured soils on the slopes and mesas. Diploids are found on courser sandy soils and sand dune areas. The hexaploids seem better adapted to the silty clay flood plain soils of the Rio Grande Valley. The occurrence of hybridization between ploidy levels is demonstrated by 3 and 5 chromosome counts, indicating that gene exchange between ploidy levels occurs.
10.2307/3671355|Nest site placement was studied on a 1.72 ha Laughing Gull Colony on Little Pelican Island. The gulls nested in two distinct plant communities, one composed mainly of Borrichia frutescens and the other composed primarily of Spartina patens. In the first community the gulls nested in the ecotone between the Borrichia and open sand areas that were interspersed throughout the colony. They nested in vegetation that was 24 to 32 cm high. In S. patens, they nested throughout grass that was 86 cm high. Nests were closer together in dense vegetation than in sparse vegetation. Open sand areas were a factor in nest site selection as 77% of the nests were within 2 m of an open area. Nesting territories were small and were abandoned several days after the chicks hatched.
10.2307/3671356|Seventy-five species and varieties of the order Agaricales are reported from three units of the Big Thicket National Preserve and adjoining portions of southeast Texas.
10.2307/3671357|Sex ratios and tree sizes were determined in eight natural populations of cottonwood, Populus deltoides, of various ages in waterside and upland habitats. The ratios in most size and age classes showed no statistically significant departure from 1:1, although male trees slightly outnumbered females in a majority of the populations. Male trees begin to flower when slightly smaller than females. A ratio of 1:1 was found in two natural populations of peach-leaved willow, Salix amygdaloides, of different ages. Both cottonwood and willow are strictly dioecious, but the former is wind-pollinated and the latter is insect-pollinated.
10.2307/3671358|The seasonal activity and reproductive cycle of Ophisaurus attenuatus attenuatus were studied from specimens collected in the fall of 1974 and the spring of 1975; museum specimens were also examined. Two peaks of terrestrial activity were observed; one occurred during the breeding season in April and May, and the other occurred in October and November. Nearly five times as many adult lizards were collected in the spring than in the fall. Sexual maturity in both sexes is attained during the second year (third calendar year) of life. Male and female reproductive cycles are highly synchronized. Testicular histology revealed an annual spermatogenic cycle. Clutch size based upon enlarged ovarian follicles averaged 12.1 (n = 7) and was not significantly correlated (r = 0.36; P>0.05) with sonout-vent length. Postovulatory follicles, or corpora lutea, regress to become deeply pigmented ovarian scars called corpora albicantia which presumably remain within the ovaries for life.
10.2307/3671359|A semiarid, prairie township in south-central El Paso County, Colorado was dominated by blue grama (Bouteloua gracilis) and several cactus species. Within the township the cacti achieved highest densities on clayey soils, and soil texture apparently played a determining role in the distribution of other plants as well. An ordination of plots by vegetation correlated strongly with the clay content of the plot soils, and 35 of the more common plants were assigned index numbers for soil texture. The plots on sandy soil were species rich and often shrubby and contained silvery wormwood (Artemisia filifolia), rabbit-brush (Chrysothamnus nauseosus), and Spanish bayonet (Yucca glauca). The plots on clayey soils had abundant cacti, particularly plains pricklypear (Opuntia polyacantha) and walking-stick cholla (O. imbricata), but were generally nonshrubby and poorer in species composition. Four grasses provided 95% of the 51% canopy cover. They were blue grama (82% of the relative cover); galleta-grass (Hilaria jamesii) (7%); ring muhly (Muhlenbergia torreyi) (3%); and sand dropseed (Sporobolus cryptandrus) (3%). The total canopy cover was fairly constant and not significantly affected by soil texture.
10.2307/3671360|A total of 31 Colorado squawfish, Ptychocheilus lucius, were collected from the Green River in 1980 and the Green, White and Yampa rivers in 1981. The fish were surgically implanted with radiotransmitter modules and their movement monitored for up to five months each year. Two movement patterns were linked to fish maturity: mature fish were highly mobile; immature fish were sedentary. A spawning migration of up to 205 km one-way was documented in 1981. Fish migrated upstream and downstream to reach a common spawning ground in the lower Yampa River canyon. Diel studies indicated no diel rhythm in movement existed until after spawning, when the fish were more active from 0800-1200 h. Colorado squawfish were monitored primarily in shoreline habitat over sand substrates. There were significant differences recorded for water depths and velocities selected by Colorado squawfish between the Green, White and Yampa rivers, but no difference occurred between 1980 and 1981 values recorded in the Green River.
10.2307/3671361|The diets of female white-tailed deer in central Texas were examined over a 12-month period to determine variations in diets in response to brush removal and seasonality of forage species. Five intensities of mechanical brush removal were applied. No consistent trends in diets were detected relative to intensity of brush removal. The annual diet consisted of 102 species and was comprised of 56% browse, 35% forbs, and 9% grass. Nineteen species comprised 85% of the annual diet. The effect of precipitation on herbaceous forage availability seemed to be the major factor influencing forage selection.
10.2307/3671362|A new species of oniscoid from Sphinx Cave, Cochise County, and eight other species of oniscoids are recorded from Arizona. Other species are recorded from California. The cave species is in the genus Brackenridgia Ulrich and the validity of that generic name is discussed. The new species is blind, pigmentless and a true troglobitic oniscoid. Venezillo arizonicus (Mulaik and Mulaik) is redescribed and reillustrated. the other species recorded are Haplophthalmus danicus Budde-Lund, Agabiformius lentus (Budde-Lund), Porcellionides pruinosus (Brandt), Porcellio laevis Latreille, Porcellio dilatatus Brandt and Ratzeburg, Cylisticus convexus (DeGeer) and Armadillidium vulgare (Latreille). Three of the species, H. danicus, P. laevis and P. dilatatus are also recorded from California, the first two being recorded from there for the first time. The nine species from Arizona included all oniscoids recorded from the state and a key and diagnostic characters are presented to identify them.
10.2307/3671363|Little bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium), brownseed paspalum (Paspalum plicatulum), and Indiangrass (Sorghastrum nutans) dominate remnant upland grasslands of the Upper Coastal Prairie of Texas. Lowlands are dominated by eastern gammagrass (Tripsacum dactyloides) and switchgrass (Panicum virgatum). Composition and flora of uplands are similar to those of communities over loamy Alfisols of the Fayette Prairie, a southern outlier of the Blackland Prairie. Coastal Prairie lowlands are also similar to lowlands of the Fayette Prairie. Fayette Prairie communities over Alfisols show less similarity to Fayette Prairie communities over clayey Vertisols than to Upper Coastal communities over both soil types. Therefore, the Upper Coastal Prairie should be considered part of a north-south continuum of tall grass communities within Texas. Decreased importance of big bluestem (Andropogon gerardii) and sideoats grama (Bouteloua curtipendula) and an increased importance of brownseed paspalum in the uplands represent the most significant differences in dominance relationships between Upper Coastal Prairie remnants and remnants over Vertisols within the Fayette Prairie. This shift in dominance relationships may be the result of decreased precipitation inland coupled with variation in soil type.
10.2307/3671364|Bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) wintering at Navajo Lake, New Mexico, were studied by ground observation and aerial surveys between November 1978 and April 1979. The population varied between 15 and 77, with peaks in January and March before and after maximum ice coverage on the lake. The overall ratio of adults to immatures was 40:60, locally varying with prey availability. Most roosts were in small stands of ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) in sheltered drainages within 2 km of the lake. Perch use was highly variable. Eagles fed on the most abundant prey source, but their diet varied as weather and prey availability changed. Big game carrion was the primary food source, followed in order by small mammals, waterfowl, and fish.
10.2307/3671365|Hatchling yield studies were conducted for yellow mud turtles, Kinosternon flavescens, over the period 1978-1982 at Big Sand Mound, Iowa. During 1979, the principle predator, raccoons, were live-trapped and removed from the study area. Raccoons did not return to the study area until 1981, and were abundant by 1982. Number of nests destroyed was markedly lower during the absence of raccoons and hatchling yield (number of hatchlings reaching water) was apparently enhanced by the predator removal program. Times in which eggs and hatchlings were most vulnerable to predation included the period immediately following nest construction, the period of spring emergence, and during movement from nest to water. Of seven species encountered, hatchlings of one species emerged exclusively during spring, four species emerged during either fall or spring, and two species emerged exclusively during fall.
10.2307/3670988|Biosystematic studies of the morphology, reproductive biology, karyology, and flavonoid composition of Nama hispidum and N. stevensii indicate that the two taxa should be recognized as distinct species. Although the two taxa differ consistently only in the nature of their pubescence, other morphological characters when combined do permit differentiation. The taxa have similar phenological and genetic patterns; both are obligate outcrossers. Nama hispidum is pollinated by halictid bees of the genus Sphecodosoma, whereas N. stevensii is pollinated by the andrenid bee Nomadopsis beamerorum. Both taxa form seven bivalents at meiotic metaphase I, and disjunction is regular. Gene exchange between the two taxa is limited; seed set in interspecific crosses is about 18%. Chromatographic data indicate differences; plants of N. hispidum have an array of four flavonoids, whereas plants of N. stevensii have the same array plus an additional five. It is hypothesized that the widely distributed and variable N. hispidum has given rise to the gypsophilic N. stevensii.
10.2307/3670989|A total of 1837 fish representing 22 species were collected between September, 1978 and August, 1980 from the Upper San Marcos River, Hays County, Texas. Thirty-four species of endohelminth parasites were recovered from 1770 infected fish. Those endohelminths recovered represented 11 species of adult digenetic trematodes, 3 trematode metacercariae, 3 adult cestodes, 2 cestode plerocercoids, 6 adult nematodes, 5 larval nematodes, and 4 species of acanthocephalans. Strict host-species specificity was observed for only three species of endohelminths: Creptotrematina aguirrepequenoi, Lissorchis hypentelii, and Corallobothrium fimbriatum. Other endohelminth species infected as many as 12 host species with varying intensities. Mean intensity of infection ranged from 1.0 worm per infested host (Proterometra macrostoma in Ambloplites rupestris) to 101.9 worms per infected host for Caecincola latostoma in Micropterus salmoides.
10.2307/3670990|The number of molts to maturity in Diplocentrus bigbendensis Stahnke, from Big Bend National Park, Texas, was determined using several methods. The theoretical method, assuming a progression factor of 1.26 at each molt, predicted that adult females that gave birth in captivity represented ninth instars. The indirect method, using a bivariate morphometric plot from a sample of 79 field caught specimens, gave inconclusive results. A new method, concatenation, using morphometric data from eight field caught specimens of various sizes which molted zero to four times in captivity, indicated that males matured at the eighth and ninth instars. Three specimens born in captivity in the fall of 1974 matured as follows: two eighth instar males on April and June 1977, respectively, and one ninth instar female on April 1978.
10.2307/3670991| Etheostoma pottsi is sporadically distributed in mountain streams of northwestern Mexico. A morphological study of specimens from all parts of its range revealed little variation among populations in four separate drainages. The species is redescribed and contrasted to E. australe, E. grahami, and E. lepidum /// Etheostoma pottsi se distribye esporadicamente en ros de las sierras del noroeste de Mxico. El examen morfolgico de especimenes procedentes de varios drenajes a lo largo de su distribucin geogrfica revel poca variacin entre las poblaciones de cuatro cuencas independientes en el area. La especie se redescribe y compara con E. australe, E. grahami y E. lepidum. 
10.2307/3670992|Intraspecific variation in the prairie vole, Microtus ochrogaster, was examined using univariate and multivariate statistical techniques. Twelve morphological characters of 271 specimens collected from 15 quadrats in Arkansas, Missouri and Tennessee were utilized in data analyses. A matrix of correlation of characters was computed and the first three principal components, accounting for 91.1% of the character set variation, are reported. Projections of quadrat samples onto the first three principal components revealed interlocality variability within morphological characters. A general trend for voles being largest in the southern localities and smallest in the northern localities was identified. In addition, significant nonsize differences were noted between voles from localities east of the Mississippi River and those west of the Mississippi. No evidence was found to support the hypothesis of a disjunct central Arkansas population.
10.2307/3670993| A field study was conducted in Wyoming sagebrush-grassland to determine the changes in native early successional communities after introductions of annual weeds. Three sites were disced and quadrats with differing densities and percent cover of introduced weeds were created by planting or removing them in some quadrats at each site, depending on colonization rates. The dominant weeds colonizing over a three-year period were Salsola kali, S. collina, Sisymbrium altissimum, and Bromus tectorum, with cover ranging from 0 to 94%. At the higher weed cover and densities, native species had reduced cover, density, and richness per unit area in the first two years. Compared with native communities, those with introduced species had higher total cover, greater total richness, and lower evenness (J) due to the great abundance of a few introduced species. By year three the introduced weeds were much less common. Some native annuals had greater cover in quadrats littered with weed debris from the previous year, but the native perennials which dominate later successional stages still had less cover in quadrats with weeds, suggesting a slowed rate of succession with high weed colonization. Success of the introduced species is attributed to (1) effective dispersal due to the tumbleweed habit, (2) deeper roots which may deplete soil moisture to the detriment of associated native species, and (3) temporal resource partitioning, where the introduced species maximize growth either earlier (C
10.2307/3670994|The reproductive ouputs and head sizes were measured in two subpopulations of the alpine ant, Formica gelida. One subpopulation occurred on a north-facing slope and the other on a south-facing slope of alpine-tundra habitat. The mean number of queens and males found in each colony was five times higher on the south-facing slope than on the north-facing slope, whereas there was no significant difference in the mean number of new workers in each colony at the two sites. The heads of worker ants were significantly larger on the north-facing slope as compared with those on the south-facing slope. The environmental and selective factors that could cause these differences are discussed.
10.2307/3670995| Linum pratense is a native annual of Oklahoma and Texas and has fugacious, or short-lived, petals. After the petals fall, the sepals move inward and push the dehiscing anthers onto the stigma, resulting in self-pollination. Greenhouse grown flowers with their sepals removed produce significantly fewer seeds than do intact flowers in the field or greenhouse. Few large or active insects visit L. pratense flowers, and the pollen:ovule ratio of the plant is relatively low (149  14:1). In the evolution of this species there has been selection for an annual life history, shorter styles so stigma and anthers touch, and inward moving sepals that force the anthers onto the stigma. 
10.2307/3670996|The insect fauna of American mistletoe (Phoradendron tomentosum Engelmann) growing on mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa Torrey) in southern Texas is described. (P. tomentosum supports at least twelve species of host-restricted insect herbivores, including four or five lepidopterans, two weevils, one coreid bug and four homopterans. Several generalist herbivores are found regularly, and ant tending of homopterans is common. The two most destructive herbivores are Cyathissa (Emarginea) percara Morrison (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) and Atlides halesus Cramer (Lepidoptera: Lycaenidae). Both feed on leaves and younger stems. The stem feeding bug, Leptoglossus brevirostris Barber (Hemiptera: Coreidae) tends to be found on the same plants as C. percara, and the stem feeding weevil, Smiracraulax tuberculatus Pierce (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) tends to occur with A. halesus. Most of the host restricted herbivores reach peak abundance in late spring.
10.2307/3670997|Opheodrys aestivus was observed and collected at several locations in central Oklahoma. This species prefers a narrow arboreal microhabitat of dense brush in edge situations. This microhabitat is found in a variety of habitats, such as lakeshores, streambanks, upland ravines, and forest edges. Rough green snakes are able to live away from standing water by sucking droplets of dew from leaves. Green snakes exhibit little sexual dimorphism in relative tail length, indicative of adaptation for arboreality in body proportions. The snake's green coloration has a camouflaging and possibly a countershading effect, which is enhanced by its habit of freezing when approached. The response to body contact by other snakes or by humans appears to be a predator defense mechanism. Ten egg clutches had an average of 5.5 eggs. Six gravid females laid eggs in the laboratory. The mean incubation period was 41 days. Twentynine hatchlings had an average of 142 mm body length and 210 mm total length. Sexual dimorphism among hatchlings was insignificant. Two clutches of eggs were found in rotting logs.
10.2307/3670998|Studies of muscovy ducks (Cairina moschata) in Mexico included (a) food habits, (b) nest-box utilization, (c) development of ducklings and (d) endoparasites. The diets of muscovy ducks collected between May and August reflected an array of plant and animal foods. In wetland settings, 66% of the diet consisted of seeds from common aquatic plants (Nymphaea and Avicennia) with the balance consisting of invertebrates. In agricultural settings, muscovies fed almost exclusively on corn. Muscovy ducks utilized nest boxes erected near waterways; 4 of 18 (22%) of the boxes contained clutches of muscovy ducks the first year. The results of rearing 24 known-age ducklings permit aging of juvenile muscovies under field conditions. New host records are represented by 8 of the 13 species of endoparasites recovered from muscovy ducks. Muscovies feeding on invertebrates in wetland environments experienced only moderate parasite loads; those feeding on corn were less infected.
10.2307/3670999|Bird communities were studied on 3 sites in southern Nevada for a period of 15 months, including 2 breeding seasons. Study sites ranged from 975 m to about 1220 m elevation. Vegetation varied from low desert shrub dominated by creosote (Larrea tridentata) and Mohave yucca (Yucca schidigera) to sparse pinyon pine (Pinus monophylla) -- California juniper (Juniperus californica) woodland. Twenty-three species bred on 1 or more study sites during 1975 and 1976. Species richness and density of individuals was directly related to elevation in all seasons. Monthly fluctuations in species richness followed a similar pattern on all 3 sites; fluctuations in density were more variable among sites. Spring migration was characterized by more species and individuals than was fall migration; few or no migrants were recorded from the 2 lowest sites in fall. Density and number of species was lowest in winter, particularly January. Seasonal fluctuations in abundance of individuals within major trophic groups differed among groups, probably in response to food availability.
10.2307/3671000|Males of the pompilid wasp, Hemipepsis ustulata, defend palo verde trees on mountain ridges in the Sonoran Desert. The preferences of the wasps for different trees on one ascending ridge remained essentially the same over four spring flight seasons. The wasps preferred large trees high on the ridge. Other insects unrelated to the wasp behaved similarly and focused their territorial or non-territorial mate-searching on or near the same sites most preferred by the wasps. Convergent preferences of hilltopping male insects may reflect the capacity of the compound eye of insects to detect some distant landmarks more easily than others.
10.2307/3671001|Males of both the lesser wax moth, Achroia grisella (F.) and the bush katydid (Insara covilleae Rehn and Habard), call mates with high-frequency sound audible to insectivorous bats. Both insects cease acoustical mate calling when they hear the cries of either an approaching bat or a similar artificially-produced sound. But, the lesser wax moth sometimes continues to call by producing pheromone, but not sound. Both insects resume acoustical calling either soon after a bat has passed or after the artificial sound is removed.
10.2307/3671002|Anacroneuria is recorded for the Nearctic fauna. A. wipukupa is named from Oak Creek Canyon. The adult male and female, nymph and egg are described and figured. Comparisons are made with similar known species from the Neotropical region.
10.2307/3670651|The spider fauna of peanut fields in Erath and Comanche counties in the Texas West Cross-Timbers region was sampled during 1981-83. A total of 134 species comprising 79 genera and 18 families was collected. The Salticidae had the greatest diversity with 22 species. The families Araneidae, Clubionidae, Dictynidae, Gnaphosidae, Linyphiidae, Lycosidae, Philodromidae, Theridiidae and Thomisidae were also species-rich. Spider collections from habitats other than peanut fields added another 138 species, making a total of 272 species and 129 genera belonging to 28 families. Twenty-four species and one family (Zoridae) are new records for Texas.
10.2307/3670652|'Psocus' coquilletti Banks, hitherto known only from the type and a brief description, occurs in three distinctive adult forms: macropterous female, brachypterous female, and male. Association of the forms was made by similarities in color markings and by their occurrence together in field collections. The two female forms have similar external genitalia but differ consistently in details of the subgenital plate and ninth abdominal sternum. The species is now known from the Los Angeles and Riverside areas of California south to the Viscaino Peninsula of Baja California Sur. The species is a member of the genus Indiopsocus and within this genus appears to be closest to I. bisignatus (Banks) and I. infumatus (Banks) of eastern United States.
10.2307/3670653|No comprehensive evaluation exists for the fish fauna of springs in Oklahoma. In summers of 1981 and 1982, we documented the fish fauna of 50 springs located in aquifers throughout Oklahoma. Fishes were found in 19 of the 50 springs, with a total of 24 species represented. The fish fauna was richest in springs with substantial flow and bottoms clear of detritus, leaf litter, or mud, characteristic of uplands in northeast and southcentral Oklahoma. Multivariate analyses indicated in importance of substantial discharge in fish faunal richness, and that the richest fish faunas were in springs with a tendency toward the following combined characteristics: cool temperatures, gravel or sand bottoms, wide headpools or runs, high alkalinity, and high pH. Degradation of spring environments is obvious in many areas, and protection of the springs from further cultural alteration should be of primary concern.
10.2307/3670654|Stored lipids provide an important source of reserve energy for wild bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) during periods of winter food stress in northern portions of their distribution. We collected bobwhites during fall and winter from northeastern Kansas to determine their major fatty acids. Oleic and linoleic acids were the most abundant fatty acids in breast and adipose tissues of the 40 carcasses examined. No seasonal changes were detected in fatty acid composition of bobwhites, although there were indications that such changes might be occurring in some birds. Differences in fatty acid composition of birds within a covey may be an indication of intercovey movements of bobwhites.
10.2307/3670655|Fifteen polymorphic gene loci were electrophoretically resolved for 315 individuals of Sceloporus grammicus from 13 localities in southern Texas and Mexico. The lizards were sampled from three chromosome races characterized by diploid numbers of 32, 34, and 36 chromosomes, respectively. Variation for each polymorphic locus across all samples was quantified by calculating the effective inbreeding coefficient <tex-math>$(\hat{F}_{\text{e}})$</tex-math> and by comparing the heterogeneity of these values with the expected distribution of the theoretical variance <tex-math>$(\sigma ^{2})$</tex-math> to test for allozyme selection versus neutrality. All tests showed a statistically significant heterogeneity of F values, suggesting that selection is operating at some loci. Problems with the application and interpretation of such a test are discussed.
10.2307/3670656|Xenelmis sandersoni n. sp. is described from central and southeastern Arizona and the Mexican state of Chihuahua. All other known species of Xenelmis are Neotropical. Xenelmis bufo (Sharp), the only other species outside South America, occurs from central Mexico to northern South America. Xenelmis sandersoni differs from X. bufo in size (1.6-1.9 mm vs 1.4-1.6mm), in aedeagal details, and in having the 3rd strial intervals in the elytra distinctly raised.
10.2307/3670657|Minor workers of the four fire ants species found in Texas, Solenopsis aurea Wheeler, S. geminata (Fabricius), S. invicta Buren, and S. xyloni McCook were exposed for one hour to upper critical temperatures. Solenopsis aurea and S. xyloni are typically desert adapted ants whereas S. geminata and S. invicta are found in mesic regions. We predicted that those species from hot desert regions would have higher temperature tolerances than their more mesic congeners. Mortality rates were not siginificantly affected by relative humidity conditions (0% or 100%), indicating that the ants did not die from dehydration. The responses of ants acclimated at 12C, 22C, and 32C were significantly different, although biologically the differences were negligible. The LD50 values were between 40.8C and 44.0C and the LD95 values between 43.1C and 47.3C.
10.2307/3670658|Aquilegia chrysantha occupies mesic habitats in mountainous regions of the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. The faintly scented, yellow flowers are protandrous and the spurs secrete large quantities of nectar (29% total sugars). Seed set for plants under cages was 31% compared with 55% for open-pollinated flowers. The most common pollinator of the species in the Chiricahua Mountains was the crepuscular hawkmoths Eumorpha achemon (Sphingidae), although two Sphinx species also foraged effectively for nectar. The mean tongue length (4.4 cm) of Eumorpha is relatively short compared with the length (6.7 cm) of the floral spurs of A. chrysantha. This suggests that longer-tongued hawkmoths such as the Sphinx (5.4 cm) may be more important pollen vectors for A. chrysantha than is indicated by their low frequency of visitation in this study. Diurnal visitation to A. chrysantha flowers at a very low rate by large bees and hummingbirds, or recent evolution as a moth-visited taxon, may account for the failure of this hawkmoth-pollinated species to have developed a strictly crepuscular or nocturnal anthesis.
10.2307/3670659|The nectar constitution of 43 cactus species representing taxa serviced by numerous pollinator classes is reported with respect to sugar concentration, sugar composition, and caloric content per flower. Sugar concentrations do not differ significantly among hawkmoth-, hummingbird-, and bat-visited cactus flowers. A tendency to sucrose richness is present in nectars taken by moths and birds, whereas balanced and hexose-rich nectars occur in bat-visited cacti. Energy content per flower shows a difference between bat and other visitor types.
10.2307/3670660|Food choices, perch heights and substrates, and activity times were examined for the iguanid lizard Sceloporus jarrovi during periods of relatively low (June) and high (August) food abundance. Studies done in the Chiricahua Mountains of southeastern Arizona showed all of these resources, with the exception of perch substrates, are utilized differently, depending on the amount of food available. During June, all size/sex lizard groups chose smaller prey items, as well as those of a more similar volume, than they did during August. Perch heights were clustered closer together and nearer the ground in June, while in August they were higher up for all lizard groups, and of distinctly different heights for many of the groups. All lizards tended to be active during similar hours in June, but in August the larger lizards were active only early in the morning while the smaller ones were active throughout the day.
10.2307/3670661|A new species of alligator lizard from Galeana, Nuevo Len, Mexico is described. The new species is the smallest gerrhonotine lizard known, and differs from other species in the following combination of characters: smooth dorsal scales, nasals in contact with rostral, second primary temporal in contact with fifth medial supraocular, suboculars separated from the lower primary temporal by an upper labial, and wide pale crossbands on the tail. It is an oviparous species, and is found in transition woodland. The new species is intermediate to Gerrhonotus kingi and G. lugoi, but is closest to G. lugoi.
10.2307/3670662|Temperature preference of yearling Colorado squawfish, Ptychocheilus lucius, was determined in a horizontal gradient trough. Fish were acclimated to 14, 20, and 26 C, and twenty fish were tested from each acclimation temperature. Acute preferenda were 21.9, 27.6, and 23.7 C for 14, 20, and 26 C -acclimated fish, respectively. Final preferendum was estimated as 25 C.
10.2307/3670663|The distribution of the sperm whale, Physeter catodon, was documented in the Gulf of Mexico during 1979 to 1981 using regular aerial surveys and opportunistic sightings from ships. Most sightings were in the western Gulf of Mexico in deep waters near the edge of the continental shelf. A total of 47 adults and 12 young animals was sighted in groups containing from one to 14 animals.
10.2307/3670664|Reproduction among Welder Refuge deer was density independent at densities from 26 to 60 deer per km<sup>2</sup>. At densities up to 84 deer per km<sup>2</sup> resulting from intensive predator control, nonlinear decreases occurred in reproductive rates. Timing of conception was inversely correlated with rainfall prior to and during the breeding season, presumably through a link with forage quantity and quality. Preimplantation and prenatal mortality was low. Fawn survival to 3 months of age was determined primarily by coyote predation. Fawn survival was correlated with rainfall during the gestation period. Adult mortality up to 4.5 years of age was higher among males than among females, even in the absence of selective removals by hunters. The result was a preponderance of adult females in the Welder Refuge herd.
10.2307/3670665|An investigation of spiders associated with rice fields in Arkansas was made to provide a foundation to evaluate spiders as predators of rice insect pests and mosquitoes. Using aquatic dip net and metal dipper, 1201 spider specimens were collected over four seasons, resulting in a checklist including 12 families, 30 genera and 40 species. Four new species records for Arkansas were recorded: Eperigone banski Ivie and Barrows, Erigone dentigera O.P.-Cambridge, Ozyptila creola Gertsch, and Zygoballus rufipes Peckham and Peckham. The composition of the spider population in rice fields was broken down into three guilds based on method of prey capture: web spinners, ambushers, hunters. The dominant guild was the hunting spiders (67.5%). The web-spinners and ambushers constituted 32.1% and 0.4% of the total, respectively. The most abundant individual species of spiders were Pardosa milvina (Hentz), Glenognatha foxi (McCook) and Tetragnatha laboriosa Hentz. The population of spiders in rice fields treated with carbofuran insecticide was compared with populations from untreated fields. Carbofuran has little effect on spider populations in general but may decrease species diversity.
10.2307/3670666|Razorback sucker (Xyrauchen texanus [Abbott]), bonytail (Gila elegans Baird and Girard) and humpback (G. cypha Miller) chubs, and Colorado squawfish (Ptychocheilus lucius) Girard) comprise the endemic "big river" fish fauna of the Colorado River, western North America. All are near extirpation in the wild. Effects of incubation temperature upon embryo hatch success were experimentally examined to evaluate potential impacts of cold hypolimnetic reservoir releases upon species reproductive success. Eggs were spawned and fertilized at 18C, and embryos incubated at 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, and 30C. Total mortality of embryos of all species occurred in 12-96 hours at 5, 10, and 30C; and in 48-60 hours at 15C for P. lucius only. Survival and percentage hatch were highest at 15 and 20C (G. elegans) or 20C (all others). Hatched prolarvae were 0.2-1.3 mm TL longer at 20C than at 15 or 25C. Spinal or other anomalies were more frequent at 15 and 25C than at 20C. Development rates (V) were similar for all species, 4.4-6.1 (15C), 8.4-9.9 (20C), and 12.4-18.8 (25C). Because of lower survival and higher incidence of anomalies at 15 and 25C, optimal temperatures for development and hatching are probably near 20C. Reproduction may thus be limited in the wild by low water temperatures, although successful hatching is certainly not precluded. Other hypotheses to explain the demise of these fishes in thermally suitable portions of the Colorado River, such as predation upon young, should be examined.
10.2307/3670667|Measurements of xylem pressure potential were made to determine the responses of three species to moisture stress. Predawn and diurnal measurements were made on Juniperus ashei, Quercus fusiformis and Quercus texana. Under all soil moisture conditions, the daily minimum xylem pressure potential reached by J. ashei occurred at the time of day when vapor pressure deficit was greatest. Minima for the two oaks occurred before the daily maximum deficit under high stress conditions, suggesting that the stomata of the oaks were more sensitive than those of J. ashei. These responses to increased soil moisture stress indicated two types of drought resistance adaptations. Juniperus ashei is classified as drought-tolerant and Q. fusiformis and Q. texana as drought-avoidant.
10.2307/3670732|Declines in distribution and abundance of native fishes of the American Southwest have been noted for decades, but mechanisms leading to these losses are unclear. The Sonoran topminnow (Poeciliopsis occidentalis) was studied to determine mechanisms leading to local extirpation, as a model of southwestern fish extinctions. Although habitat destruction is the cause of several population losses, interactions with introduced mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis) are responsible for reduction of topminnows through much of their native range. A series of laboratory and field experiments indicated that predation of juvenile topminnows by mosquitofish is a major factor in decline of the species. For lack of evidence, introduced parasites or diseases, hybridization, physiological stress, and resource competition are all dismissed as probable mechanisms of extirpation.
10.2307/3670733|Based on all known collections, locality data are given for the three subspecies of Orconectes difficilis occurring in Louisiana, and observations on the natural history of the species in Louisiana are presented. All three subspecies inhabit streams with sand or gravel bottoms. Form I males are most common during September and October, when breeding behavior has been observed. Young are most common in June and July.
10.2307/3670734|The Ouachita Mountain Province in southwestern Oklahoma and southeastern Arkansas is an uplifted and strongly faulted region drained largely by the Kiamichi, Little, Ouachita and Saline rivers. Although a small region relative to other highland provinces in North America the fauna is distinctive, with at least eight endemic fish species. Congruent with these fish distributions are the distributions of five species of endemic crayfishes and four species of endemic salamanders. The distinctive aquatic fauna presumably evolved in a preglacial highland drainage system extending from the Blue River, Oklahoma to the Saline River in Arkansas. Biogeographically, several generalized tracks are discernable when species relationships are considered. The first track is one primarily inclusive of the Ozark Plateaus to the north. The second includes the Ouachita and Ozark highlands and highland regions east of the Mississippi valley and east to the Appalachian Mountains. Among fishes, two species groups and several allopatric populations of species exhibit this pattern. Congruent with this pattern are three species groups of crayfishes and one group of salamanders. Additional tracks are observed between rivers of the Ouachita Mountains and those surrounding the highlands or to the south in the Coastal Plain from Texas to the Atlantic Slope. Five species groups of fishes suggest this pattern and three species groups of crayfishes and one group of salamanders display congruence. Geological events hypothesized to be instrumental in the development of the first pattern include the development of the ancestral Arkansas River and glacial advance in the north. It is proposed that prior to the Pleistocene a highland topography and biota occurred not only in their present locations, but also in areas between the Ouachita and Ozark provinces and in the Central Lowlands Province north of existing highlands. The once continuous western highlands were vicariated with the development of the Arkansas River and its associated lowlands, prior to the Sangamonian interglacial. A northern vicariance occurred with the advance of glaciers and the deposition of their associated till in streams, creating habitats unsuitable for highland fishes. Ouachita endemics demonstrating the second generalized pattern might have either invaded the highland region or represent an old fauna present during the most recent uplift, in the early Tertiary.
10.2307/3670735|Temporal and geographic patterns of reproductive biology of the Lark Sparrow were examined using egg set data on oology slips and data from several nest record card (NRC) schemes. The majority of records were from California and Texas. The distribution of clutch initiation dates was unimodal for all geographic areas combined from either source, although mean date of clutch initiation was earlier from oology data compared with NRC data (14 May compared to 1 June). This was true for most geographical areas when oology and NRC data were compared. The modal clutch size was 4 from both sources, but clutches of 5 were more frequent and clutches of 3 were less frequent from oology data compared to NRC data from the same geographical area. In general, clutch size increases toward mid-continent of the United States and decreases with later dates, although the decrease is gradual. Both sources agreed that nests are built on the ground far more frequently than above ground except in California, Texas, and Oklahoma, and nests built above ground were located at a mean height of about 1.4 m. Oology data on date of clutch initiation and clutch size for almost all geographical areas are considered more accurate and reliable than NRC data and the reasons for this are discussed. The conclusion is reached that egg set data on oology slips are unjustly neglected.
10.2307/3670736|To evaluate furbearer populations and harvest in the state, the Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation compiles data for each of the 77 counties from scent station surveys and pelt purchases. Similar kinds of data are collected in other geographic regions, and appropriate statistical techniques would be useful for analyzing these types of information. Mantel test values and matrix correlations were used as statistical measures to determine the extent of geographic patterning in these data. Two types of patterning--regional and local--were differentiated and operationally defined. Mantel tests and matrix correlations were also used to compare patterns of abundance (as reflected by scent station visits or pelts purchased) between years, between species, and for the same species but based on different data sets. For scent post visits, regional and local patterning were found for coyotes (Canis latrans) in 1978, gray foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) in 1979, and combined data for gray and red foxes (Vulpes vulpes) in both years. Close concordance occurred between years (1978 and 1979) for coyotes, foxes (combined), bobcats (Felis rufus), and domestic dogs. In 1978, positive correspondences between distributions of scent post visits across the state were identified for four pairs of species: raccoons (Procyon lotor) and bobcats; coyotes and raccoons; coyotes and bobcats; and raccoons and dogs. In 1979, with more species being evaluated, 10 such comparisons of species pairs were statistically significant. Marked associations were between: dogs and cats; Virginia opossums (Didelphis virginianus) and striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis); and red foxes and raccoons. The pelt harvest data showed both local and regional patterning for most species. The only exceptions were: striped skunks for both years and both types of patterning; and coyotes in 1979 for regional patterning. Only for the gray fox was there a substantive association of scent post and harvest figures indicating, not surprisingly, that the two types of data reflect rather different aspects of furbearer populations.
10.2307/3670737|The zooplankton community of eutrophic Lahontan Reservoir, Nevada was studied during a 22-month period of 1980 and 1981. The zooplankton community consisted of seven species of cladocerans, two species of copepods and nine species of rotifers. The dominant zooplankters were the cladocerans Daphnia galeata, D. schodleri, Diaphanosoma leuchtenbergianum, and Bosmina coregoni, the copepods Cyclops vernalis, and Diaptomus sicilis, and the rotifer Keratella. Mean zooplankton density was 37.2/1 in 1980 and 64.7/1 in 1981. Overall, copepods comprised 50 percent, cladocerans 34 percent, and rotifers 16 percent of the total population. Biotic and abiotic factors are discussed in relation to their potential influence on zooplankton community structure.
10.2307/3670738| Growth rate of yearling Colorado squawfish, Ptychocheilus lucius, over a 12-week period, was determined for fish held at 15, 20, 25, and 30 C with excess food. The effect of temperature on growth rate was highly significant; fastest growth occurred at 25 C. Fish gained about 0.3 gram at 15 C, 0.9 gram at 20 and 30 C, and 1.7 grams at 25 C during the 12-week period. Results suggest that 25 C, the final thermal preferendum, is the temperature at which Colorado squawfish grow fastest with abundant feed. Future water shortage and development projects should be designed to provide summer water temperatures as near this level as feasible. 
10.2307/3670739|Population characteristics of the western slave-making ant Polyergus breviceps were studied during the summer of 1981, in the Chiricahua Mountains of southeastern Arizona. Slave raids were conducted on colonies of Formica gnava in late afternoon, past the peak in diurnal temperature. During the mating season, few to several hundred winged queens might accompany the slave-raid swarm. The median numbers of Polyergus workers participating in the slave raids were 1,189, 1,784, and 2,234 for the three study colonies, and up to 2,800 Formica pupae might be captured during a single day's raid. Thus colony size and booty capture for P. breviceps were 3-7 times larger than for the closely related eastern species P. lucidus. It is hypothesized that this discrepancy is due to the milder winters in southeastern Arizona, which may lead to increased survivorship and a longer season of brood production.
10.2307/3670740|Wings from mallard ducks harvested in 1980 in Arizona, Arkansas, Louisiana, and New Mexico were pooled into county aggregates and analyzed for organochlorine pesticides and PCB's. Organochlorine concentrations in duck wings were compared among counties comprising major river drainages within each state. DDE concentrations in the wings of mallards collected from the Verde River and the lower portion of the Gila River drainages in Arizona ranged up to 6 ppm (wet weight basis), which was 17 times higher than the 1979 Pacific Flyway average. DDE at these high levels may be hazardous to wildlife. In combination with other published data, our findings indicate a serious DDT problem in portions of the Verde River and Gila River drainages. High levels of heptachlor (up to 1.7 ppm) and PCB's (3.7 ppm, 61 times the 1979 Central Flyway average) were found in mallard wings from the upper Rio Grande and Pecos River drainages, respectively. We did not detect areas of heavy local organochlorine pesticide or PCB contamination in Arkansas and Louisiana.
10.2307/3670741|In mid-August 1977, a flash flood disrupted the benthic community of one fork of Tesuque Creek, Santa Fe National Forest, New Mexico. One year after the disturbance, the invertebrate communities of flooded and unflooded forks were similar in biomass, numbers, and species diversity. However, even after 2 years some difference in community composition remained. Oligochaetes showed no clear effect from the flood or its aftermath. Diptera recovered rapidly, Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera and Trichoptera recovered at intermediate rates, and Coleoptera recovered most slowly. Recovery proceeded at approximately equal rates upstream and downstream from the undisturbed fork. Comparing preflood to postflood collections yielded approximately the same picture of recovery as comparing postflood collections from undisturbed and disturbed reaches.
10.2307/3670742| In a desert habitat in southeastern Arizona, at an elevation of 1,463 m, Polyergus breviceps conducts slave raids on the related formicine ant Formica gnava. Due to the high temperatures characteristic of this xeric environment, little above-ground Polyergus activity occurs before 1530 hours (MST). The mean onset of raiding occurs at 1732 hours and at an air temperature of 32.7C. In the oak-juniper woodland at an elevation of 1,646 m, the mean time and temperature at raid onset were 1658 hours and 29.4C, respectively. Evidence from observations of foraging and colony emigrations indicate that the behavior of Formica workers in mixed-species colonies does not differ from their activities in homospecific, free-living colonies. 
10.2307/3670743|Mother-young behavior was studied in a population of free-ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in southern Texas. Fawns remained hidden and inactive for the first three or four weeks of their lives except when visited by their mothers, and siblings were maintained separately during this period. After four weeks of age, fawns remained active with their mothers for longer periods and began to appear in larger multi-family groups. The amount of nursing, both in frequency and duration, dropped sharply three to four weeks postpartum. Nursing infrequently was observed after fawns were ten weeks old.
10.2307/3671263|Vocalizations of barn (Hirundo rustica) and cliff (H. pyrrhonota) swallows in north central Texas-south central Oklahoma are described. Eight vocalizations in barn swallows and four in cliff swallows were found. Barn swallows possess a greater vocal repertoire than cliff swallows, perhaps because barn swallows nest in smaller colonies where acoustics allow greater reliance on vocal communication. It is suggested that increasing barn swallow colony sizes and sound distortion of twitter songs may be partly responsible for hybridization within the genus Hirundo presently observed in parts of Texas.
10.2307/3671264|Effects of historic and continuing disturbance on the flora and mammalian fauna at Barr Lake State Park, Adams County, Colorado, were assessed. Construction of an impoundment and irrigation canal enabled development of a riparian zone that initially increased the richness of the mammalian fauna by nine species. Subsequent conversion of nearby rangeland to cropland decreased the richness of the fauna by as many as 12 species. Mid-summer drawdown of the lake for irrigation possibly promotes disturbance vegetation and disrupts populations of small mammals.
10.2307/3671265|Ten characters were analyzed taximetrically to determine if morphological variation in P. parviflora ssp. sinaloensis from coastal Sonora and Sinaloa is geographically correlated. Principal component scores derived from all ten characters were strongly correlated with geographical latitude. The correlation of individual characters with latitude differed; some were uncorrelated but others were highly correlated. This pattern can be the result of introgression between P. parviflora ssp. sinaloensis and P. parviflora ssp. parviflora or primary differentiation along an environmental gradient. Several other angiosperms from Sonora and Sinaloa also displayed geographically correlated variation. The results of this study supported treatment of P. parviflora ssp. sinaloensis, P. parviflora ssp. parviflora, and P. parviflora ssp. gracillima as subspecies.
10.2307/3671266|We studied breeding behavior and size-related variation in advertisement calls of the Plains (Scaphiopus bombifrons), Couch's (S. couchi) and New Mexico (S. multiplicatus) spadefoot toads in southern Arizona during July and August, 1980-83. No call variables (frequency, pulse rate or duration) were correlated with male snout-vent length in S. bombifrons or S. couchi. However, dominant frequency was significantly correlated (negatively) with male size in S. multiplicatus. Males in amplexus were not significantly larger than non-mating males in three of three S. couchi or three of three S. multiplicatus breeding aggregations. Non-calling, actively searching males were observed in aggregations of S. couchi and S. multiplicatus, and in S. multiplicatus actively searching males were significantly smaller than calling males.
10.2307/3671267|Two hundred and fifty weight values for Spermophilus elegans females were analyzed by age class and reproductive status to clarify the pattern of female weight growth. During their first active season, juvenile females attained 80% of yearling and 74% of adult prehibernatory weights. Juveniles that survived hibernation to become yearlings were significantly lighter than adults at spring emergence because of incomplete weight growth in the first active season and greater overwinter weight loss. Yearlings continued to grow during the second active season and reproduced. Postemergent litter sizes of yearlings were smaller than those of adults. Production of smaller litters or the failure to successfully wean litters probably enabled yearlings to attain 95% of adult pre- and posthibernatory weight values by the end of the second season. Nonreproductive females of both yearling and adult age classes gained significantly more weight by mid to late summer than did females with weaned young, but immergence times were similar for the four age-reproductive classes. Previous accounts have stated that juvenile ground squirrels attain 100% adult weight in their first active season. The results of this study indicate that the growth process of S. elegans females is more gradual and requires two full active seasons before yearling weight values are equivalent to those of adult females.
10.2307/3671268|Endoparasites of 273 Crotaphytus collaris collaris were identified from lizards collected in Arkansas during the 1971-72 and 79-80 activity seasons. A larval spirurid nematode, Abbreviata sp., not identifiable to species was found in the stomach of almost half of the lizards examined. Abbreviata sp. was common in adult lizards, uncommon in juveniles and absent in hatchlings. It appears that C. c. collaris ingests an arthropod intermediate host and Abbreviata sp. are unable to mature. Collared lizards represent paratenic or second intermediate hosts in this life cycle scheme and the most likely definitive hosts are predators of C. c. collaris. A linstowiidean eucestode, Oochoristica sp., also infected collared lizards but was found in the duodenum of only 2.9% of the lizards examined. The intermediate host of this Oochoristica tapeworm is unknown, but presumably is an arthropod. Complete classification of Oochoristica sp. awaits further study since measurements of the scolex, strobila, suckers, cirrus sac and testes did not approximate those measurements of species previously described. Information on seasonal and county distribution of the helminths are also presented.
10.2307/3671269|Sound spectrographs of the distress vocalizations of Artibeus jamaicensis and Phyllostomus hastatus are presented and described. Distress calls consisted of long series of short duration pulses and each pulse covered a wide band of frequencies. Sound energy did not extend beyond 15 <tex-math>$\text{kH}_{\text{z}}$</tex-math>. The acoustic structure of Artibeus and Phyllostomus distress calls is consistent with predictions derived from theory of ecological and behavioral acoustics.
10.2307/3671270|A statistical study of the morphology of Atriplex canescens (Pursh) Nutt. cytotypes indicates that the most distinguishing macrovariation is present in leaf characters length and width with diploids having longer, narrower leaves, and the tetraploids and hexaploids having obovate or elliptic leaves. Leaves of hexaploids are statistically larger than the leaves of tetraploids. Fruit size is larger in diploids but not statistically different between tetraploids and hexaploids. The combination of longer, narrower leaves and relatively larger fruits may be used in the field with a reasonable degree of accuracy to indicate diploidy. Statistical tests included discriminant analysis, stepwise discriminant analysis with canonical correlation, and Duncan's multiple range test.
10.2307/3671271|Major plant communities on open limestone slopes (1600-2100 m) in the Huachuca Mountains of southeastern Arizona are pine-oak woodland, mesic phase Cercocarpus breviflorus scrub, and xeric phase Cercocarpus scrub. Other communities of more limited areal extent include pine forest, deciduous woodland, and desert grassland. Vegetation patterns as represented by the first axis of reciprocal averaging ordination are strongly correlated (Spearman's r = 0.86, p < 0.0001) with an environmental scalar that incorporates elevation, solar irradiation, exposure, and topographic position. All communities studied have moderate to high cover of species with Madrean affinity, but species of broader western and southwestern distributions dominate the more arid sites. Chihuahuan Desert species also become more important with increasing aridity, a common feature of limestone areas in southeastern Arizona.
10.2307/3671272|The effects of a severe freeze in December, 1983 on the native plants of the lower Rio Grande Valley, Texas were determined for 75 species. Damage was initially assessed by examining leaves, apical meristems, and cambial tissues of stems. Initial assessments were confirmed by surveys in the spring when new leaves were present. Forty-three species were either undamaged or had only minor leaf damage. Twenty-two species with damaged leaves had intact apical meristems or showed evidence of damage for less than 10 cm below the apical meristem. Three species, Leucaena pulverulenta, Cordia boissieri, and Karwinskia humboldtiana, had more extensive damage, i.e., 10 cm - 40 cm below the apex, but showed evidence of recovery by the presence of undamaged cambial and phloem tissues below the apex. Eight species, Avicennia germinans, Capsicum annuum var. glabriusculum, Cereus pentagonus, Chiococca alba, Citharexylum berlandieri, Erythrina herbacea, Iresine palmeri (male plants), and Petiveria alliacea, were seriously damaged. Temperatures lower than those occurring in December, 1983, or similar temperatures for much longer periods of time, would be necessary to kill most of the native species in the lower Rio Grande Valley, Texas.
10.2307/3671273|Bat flies, Trichobius major, were challenged in a Y-maze with stimuli to determine which might be used in the locating of a bat host in a darkened cave environment. Positive responses were to heat and carbon dioxide. The adaptive significance of these two stimuli are discussed.
10.2307/3671274|Kinosternon flavescens is a xeric adapted turtle; isolated populations are found in the midwestern United States associated with sandy soils and temporary ponds. Turtles at Big Sand Mound, Iowa, are active (aquatic) from late April to mid-July and aestivate terrestrially from mid-July to mid-August. Some turtles might resume activity later in August and early September before winter hibernation. Turtles feed aquatically from mid-May to mid-July. This represents the shortest annual feeding period reported for a turtle. In 1979, following a severe drought, the primary diet shifted from fishes and crayfish to snails. Spring Lake, presently a temporary pond, was occupied more extensively than the semi-permanent Beatty's Pond. The latter probably provides some stability to the system during drought years. The turtle is associated with other sand prairie relict species and has been proposed as an endangered species.
10.2307/3671275|Seasonal variation in nest site selection by the Abert's towhee (Pipilo aberti) was studied in honey mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa) habitat along the lower Colorado River from March to July, 1981. Stepwise discriminant function analysis identified nest vegetation type, nest direction, and nest height as the three most important variables that characterized the difference between early and late nest sites. Early nests were typically placed low on the southeastern sides of small shrubs or mistletoe, while later nests were built higher in mesquite and mistletoe. Although mesquite was a preferred nest shrub species after it leafed out in April, flexibility in nest site choice allowed towhees to initiate reproduction in early March. By breeding earlier than migratory songbirds, multi-brooded Abert's towhees lengthen their breeding season, and thus increase their chances of nesting successfully.
10.2307/3671276|Sphaeralcea polychroma is described from New Mexico, Texas and Chihuahua. Seven populations have been sampled and are tetraploid at 2n=20. The species exhibits considerable variability in flower color from the characteristic grenadine of the genus.
10.2307/3671277|Wild horses, mule deer, elk and pronghorn diet botanical compositions were determined using fecal analysis on low elevation winter range in northcentral New Mexico during a year with near normal precipitation the previous growing season. Common winterfat (Eurotia lanata) was an important species in all ungulate diets. All ungulates consumed a high component of shrubs (over 31%). Wild horses, which are considered grazers, consumed diets comprised of over 69% forbs and shrubs. Dietary similarity between ungulate pairs was highest for wild horses and elk (71%) and lowest between elk and pronghorn (53%). Common use appears advantageous on this range because wild horses and elk use grasses which receive little use by mule deer and pronghorn.
10.2307/3671041|During a 16 month period, three hundred and seventy-five lizards of ten species from central Maricopa County, Arizona, were examined for helminth parasites in the buccal cavity, viscera and coelom. Twelve species of nematodes were found in the digestive tract of one or more of the lizard species. Adult cestodes were found in the small or large intestine of five species, and immature or encysted forms were found in the liver, mesenteries, coelom or small intestine of four species. Acanthocephalan larvae were found in the coelom of one species. No lung parasites or trematodes were found. The total percentage of helminth parasitism in each lizard species is given. Discussion of the various parasitic forms as they occurred in their lizard host is included.
10.2307/3671042|The largest remaining populations of the endangered Ash Meadows speckled dace, Rhinichthys osculus nevadensis, and two of the largest remaining populations of the endangered Ash Meadows Amargosa pupfish, Cyprinodon nevadensis mionectes, occur in Jack Rabbit and Big Springs. Although both springs contain large populations of C. n. mionectes and small, but apparently viable, populations of R. o. nevadensis, they also contain large populations of exotic fishes, crayfish and bullfrogs. Natural barriers exclude exotic fishes from the spring pool and part of the outflow of Jack Rabbit Spring. Below the barriers, sailfin mollies, Poecilia latipinna, predominate, with mosquitofish, Gambusia affinis, occurring in relatively small numbers. Both native fishes and the exotics, P. latipinna and G. affinis, occur throughout the Big Spring system. In Big Spring, the large, relatively still-water habitats present in the spring pool and wider outflow channel allow G. affinis to predominate. The rarity of R. o. nevadensis appears attributable to the abundance of exotic species. Notes on life history, population sizes and management of the endangered fishes are also provided.
10.2307/3671043|Aestival diel activity, location of pupal site, and pupal duration and survivorship of the predaceous diving beetle, Dytiscus dauricus, were quantitatively examined at two high elevation ponds in east-central Arizona. Captures in funnel traps showed adults were most active at night, and movement was almost entirely restricted to vegetated littoral zones of ponds. In contrast, larvae were primarily diurnal and utilized both littoral and pelagic waters to a similar degree. Larvae began constructing pupal cells in late June and early July. Pupation sites averaged 2.05 m (limits: 1.00-3.55 m) from pond's edge. Size of stone under which pupal cells were constructed was fairly consistent among larvae. No pupae or eclosed adults in pupal cells were found after 10 September. Length of pupation was about 23 days and 52% of larvae that constructed pupal cells successfully reached adulthood.
10.2307/3671044|Intraspecific variation in external and cranial measurements of rock pocket mice (Chaetodipus intermedius) was evaluated using 312 adult specimens (145 males and 167 females). Males were larger than females for 8 of 16 characters examined, and significant geographic variation occurred in 15 characters for one or both sexes. Generally, largest means of male and female characters were from specimens representing the Carrizozo malpais; the smallest mice were from the Afton lava flows. Specimens from the Pedro Armendariz lava field and the nearby Fra Cristobal Range were the closest geographically and the most similar morphologically.
10.2307/3671045|Fish populations were sampled at 11 locations along the course of the pluvial White River, southeastern Nevada, in the 1960s and in 1983, and 3 sites in early 1984. The locations included Preston Big, Preston Town, and Lund Town springs, White River Valley, White Pine County; Moorman, Hot Creek, and Flag springs, White River Valley, Nye County; and Hiko, Crystal, and Ash springs, Pahranagat Valley, Lincoln County; and Moapa Valley Water District Spring and the Moapa River at Home Ranch, Moapa Valley, Clark County. Comparisons of species composition and abundance were made and, where possible, were related to historical data on settlement and habitat modifications. Negative impacts have accelerated during the past 20 years and the fishes in most of these sites have declined dramatically because of habitat alteration and reduction, and introductions of non-native species. One species became extinct before 1955, and our investigations show recent extirpations of taxa at two localities. Two taxa currently are listed as endangered. We submit rationale for endangered status for an additional seven taxa, threatened status for one, and special concern status for another. Only two fishes in this system presently remain comparatively safe.
10.2307/3671046|Palaeopiceoxylon thinosus, a new species of fossil conifer wood, is described from the Cedar Mountain Formation of Utah. Piceoxylon thomsoni, having the generic characteristics of Palaeopiceoxylon, is also combined with the latter genus. Palaeopiceoxylon thinosus most closely resembles P. thomsoni. These two species differ in that P. thinosus has thick walled ray cells with an average of two rather than four piceoid pits per crossfield and rays up to 27 rather than 16 cells high, as occur in P. thomsoni. Palaeopiceoxylon thomsoni also lacks tylosoids which are present in P. thinosus.
10.2307/3671047|In the succulent desert formation of the northern Chihuahuan desert, a moisture gradient is the major factor controlling the species composition and community structure. The moisture gradient results from 1.4 times greater annual solar irradiance on south-facing slopes and significantly greater surface cover of rock as well as sandier soils on basalt slopes. Consequently, more rapid infiltration and a reduction of the loss of surface water occurs on the basalt slopes. The moisture gradient, basalt north > limestone north > basalt south > limestone south, results in the differences in vegetation as determined by community composition measurements, community similarity values, ordination analysis, and species diversity indices.
10.2307/3671048|Crops of 111 bobwhite quail (Colinus virginianus texanus) and 36 scaled quail (Callipepla squamata castanogastris) were collected in southwest Texas in late 1979 and 1980 during drought. Both quail species ate a wide variety of seeds and fruits from plants such as bristlegrasses (Setaria spp.), purple dalea (Dalea lasiathera), bundleflower (Desmanthus virgatus), doveweed (Croton spp.), euphorbia (Euphorbia spp.), capul (Schaefferia cuneifolia) and spiny hackberry (Celtis pallida). Mean number of food items per crop for quail collected during the fall-winter was 8 and 15 for bobwhite and scaled quail, respectively. Seeds of forbs and woody plants were relatively more important to scaled quail, whereas bobwhites consumed more grass seed. Green vegetation comprised 72% of the diet of bobwhite quail and 52% of the diet of scaled quail during the fall-winter. Insects were important as food to both quail species. Desert termites (Termitidae) were consumed heavily during the fall-winter. Diets of bobwhite and scaled quail exhibited a relatively low degree of overlap during the fall-winter of 1979-80 (Co = 0.22), and a higher degree of overlap during June (Co = 0.67) and September (Co = 0.57) of 1980. Grazing management practices which produce good range conditions and maximum plant diversity is desirable. Plant diversity may be particularly important for maintaining an adequate food supply for quail during drought. Because of their ability to use a wide variety of food plants, and their preference for more open, xeric habitats, scaled quail may be better adapted to exploiting habitats created by drought and/or overgrazing than bobwhite quail within sympatric ranges.
10.2307/3671049|Surveys were conducted for the bluntnose shiner (Notropis simus pecosensis) in the Pecos River of New Mexico from Santa Rosa to an area just north of Carlsbad. The status of the species was assessed within its historic range and aspects of its life history and ecology were investigated. The distribution and abundance of the species seems to have declined during the last 40 years because much of its habitat is periodically dewatered. The bluntnose shiner occurs in the Pecos River from Fort Summer to Artesia. Fishes most frequently associated with N. s. pecosensis were Hybognathus placitus, Hybopsis aestivalis, Notropis jemezanus, N. lutrensis, and N. stramineus. Bluntnose shiners appear to have an extended spawning period with fecundity similar to that of other species of Notropis. Reproduction is presently confined to two perennial sections of the Pecos River that exist because of local groundwater seepage. The species was most abundant in these two areas and was collected most often in main-channel habitats having sandy substrates, low velocity laminar flows, and at depths ranging from 17 to 41 cm.
10.2307/3671050|Amsonia fugatei S. P. McLaughlin from Socorro County, New Mexico, is a large-flowered species similar to Amsonia longiflora Torr. of adjacent southern New Mexico and Amsonia grandiflora Alexander of southern Arizona. It differs from the latter two species in having glabrous, lanceolate leaves and pubescent stems.
10.2307/3671051|Call-count listening stations were used to survey the distribution and relative abundance of white-tipped doves (Leptotila verreauxi) in south Texas. The species appeared to be abundant in native woodland, citrus groves, and suburban areas of Cameron, Hidalgo, Starr, and Willacy counties. White-tipped doves also were located in isolated tall shrub-forest and riparian forest in rangeland of Zapata, Brooks, Kenedy, and Webb counties.
10.2307/3671052|Simple linear correlations and regressions were developed between several diet and fecal nutritional characteristics of two mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) does fed four different forage diets. Fecal and diet fiber concentrations had poor correlations (r < 0.60). However diet and fecal nitrogen concentrations were closely correlated (r = 0.89). A correlation also occurred between diet and fecal in vitro digestibility (r = 0.94). When wild ruminant diets are low in soluble phenolics and tannins, percentage fecal nitrogen concentration shows potential for monitoring trends in diet quality. Fecal acid pepsin digestion may be reliable when wild ruminant diets contain high levels of soluble phenolics or tannins, but this needs further study.
10.2307/3671053|Telemetric observations of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) does were used to determine seasonal relationships between deer use and availability of habitats on two study areas in the Panhandle region of west Texas. Juniper breaks was the only type used in greater proportion than its availability on the Canadian River study area (CRSA). On the Clarendon study area (CSA) mule deer shifted seasonal preferences between riparian, cultivated fields, and juniper breaks. Annual and seasonal home ranges were considerably larger on the CSA. Larger home ranges and variability in seasonal use of the habitat types on the CSA were attributed largely to the presence of cultivated winter grain fields. Shifts in home ranges coincided with the season when production in the cultivated fields was highest and native forage availability was lowest. Comparisons of indirect deer observations (pellet groups and bed sites) with random measurements within each habitat type characterized deer use sites as east and north facing slopes, located close to a canyon rim, and receiving light livestock and human use. The placement of cultivated grain fields could be used to influence overall range use and attract deer to or away from localized sites. Also, consideration should be given to directing heavy livestock and human traffic away from sites that are used by mule deer.
10.2307/3671054|Morphological and reproductive data were gathered from white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) killed on the Fort Riley Military Reservation during 1978-81. Morphological measurements varied by age and sex. All measurements of males exceeded females, except for fawns less than 6 months old. Weights of males increased through 42 months of age whereas the weights of females plateaued at 18 to 30 months. Equations were developed to predict whole body weight of deer from field-dressed weight. Corpora lutea counts and fetal rates were highest for adult does and lowest for fawns. Fawns less than 6 months of age were less productive than fawns over 6 months old. In general the productivity of the Fort Riley deer herd was slightly lower than that of other midwestern white-tailed deer populations where agricultural crops comprise a larger percentage of the year-round diet.
10.2307/3670953|Kinosternon flavescens develops three concomitant ovarian follicle size classes during the activity season, but deposits only one clutch. The smallest follicles represent clutches to be oviposited two years later. Eggs have a high lipid content. These characteristics might be a strategy to survive in an environment which necessitates dormancy for extended periods of time. Individual egg width, dry mass, clutch dry mass, and clutch size increased with female size. Egg width positively correlated with egg dry mass.
10.2307/3670954|A study was conducted on changes in fatbody mass and liver mass during reproduction of female Holbrookia propinqua. Fatbody mass was inversely correlated with clutch mass, indicating that fatbodies were depleted as clutches developed. The major depletion of fatbodies occurred in the early stages of clutch development. Fatbodies were essentially depleted during production of the first clutch and remained small until the post-reproductive period. Liver mass of reproductive females was significantly greater than that of non-reproductive females. Apparently, fatbody lipid was mobilized to the liver at the onset of reproduction. Liver mass was high during formation of the first and second clutches, but was significantly lower during formation of the third clutch. The decrease in liver mass was possibly due to use of stored lipid for egg production at a time when ingestion supplied insufficient energy. It is suggested that fatbodies may serve to insure a reserve of lipid in the liver to supplement clutches which are produced during periods of low energy intake.
10.2307/3670955|The mayfly fauna of the Concho River, Texas, consisted of 17 species in 7 families as determined from 12 collecting sites sampled at least once monthly for two years for both aquatic nymphs and aerial adults. Nymphs were reared to adults for positive association. Leucrocuta maculipennis (Walsh) is reported from Texas for the first time. Adult descriptions of Leptohyphes packeri Allen and Leptohyphes vescus Allen, previusly known from only the nymphal stage, are presented.
10.2307/3670956|The small mammal communities in four major plant associations were examined in the Whirlwind Valley, Eureka and Lander Counties, Nevada. All associations have been extensively grazed by livestock. Live trapping plots were placed and sampled seasonally in each habitat. Dipodomys microps and Perognathus parvus were the primary species within the big sagebrush and shadscale associations. In the greasewood association, P. maniculatus and Eutamias minimus were primary species. Microtus montanus, Reithrodontomys megalotis, Sorex vagrans, and Thomomys talpoides formed the small mammal community in the marsh-meadow association. Density was low on all plots, not exceeding a total of 13 individuals/ha. Grazing pressure probably accounts for the low habitat quality which did not support more than 0.6 kg/ ha biomass in shadscale and big sagebrush-shadscale, whereas less than 0.3 kg/ha was supported on each of the remaining habitats. Mammal species diversity was highest in greasewood and the ecotonal plot which corresponded to the habitats with the greatest plant diversity, cover, and vertical structure.
10.2307/3670957|On 1-2 September 1979, mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) were collected in southeastern New Mexico to determine the amounts and kinds of food items ingested, to ascertain whether foods were selected in proportion to those available, and to evaluate sexual, age, and temporal variation in feeding ecology. Prairie sunflower (Helianthus petiolaris) was the dominant food item. Foods were not taken in proportion to plant densities at the study site. Discriminant analyses revealed no consistent differences between sexes, but there were some differences between ages and time of collection.
10.2307/3670958|Blue-green algal mat biomass, productivity, and nitrogen fixation were determined for two southern Texas tidal flats, and environmental factors affecting productivity rates were assessed. Algal biomass over three seasons ranged from 0.50 to <tex-math>$1.53\ \text{g}\ \text{chl}\ a\ \cdot \ \text{m}^{-2}$</tex-math>. The rate of carbon fixation (by <sup>14</sup>C technique) ranged from <tex-math>$0.6\ \text{g}\ \text{C}\cdot \text{m}^{-2}\cdot \text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> (in fall) to <tex-math>$2.4\ \text{g}\ \text{C}\cdot \text{m}^{-2}\cdot \text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math> (in spring) on days when flats were flooded. The rate of N<sub>2</sub> fixation on the same days varied from 0.09 to <tex-math>$0.5\ \text{kg}\ \text{N}\cdot \text{ha}^{-1}\cdot \text{day}^{-1}$</tex-math>. On days when mats were severely desiccated (mat water < 25% dry wt.), in situ primary productivity and N<sub>2</sub> fixation activities were zero. Exposed but moist mats (water content > 25% but < 60%) were capable of fixing gaseous CO<sub>2</sub> in air. Exposure to sunlight equivalent to one-fourth full sunlight <tex-math>$(\text{ca}.500\mu \text{E}\cdot \text{m}^{-2}\cdot \text{s}^{-1})$</tex-math> sustained maximum photosynthetic activity.
10.2307/3670959|Dalquestia rothorum, new species, from Mt. Graham, Graham County, Arizona, is described. A taxonomical key to the species of Dalquestia is provided.
10.2307/3670960|Seventy-seven desert night snakes (Hypsiglena torquata deserticola) were collected from 1975-1983 in southwest Idaho and analyzed for life history features. Females were nearly 50% longer and three times greater in body mass than males. The sex ratio favored males 2.5 to 1. Mature males captured from April to September had spermatozoa in the ductus deferens but spermatogenesis probably occurred during midsummer. The sexual segment of the kidney tubules was largest in males collected during spring with regression occurring through the summer. Only three clutches of three, four and seven eggs were counted in six sexually mature females. Ovulation and oviposition probably occurred during June, but the possibility of a wider range of ovulation times was not excluded. Males reached sexual maturity at about 29 cm SVL, whereas females were about 40 cm SVL at sexual maturity. Major surface activity began in mid-May and reached a peak in early July. Most captures occurred in rocky habitats and H. torquata deserticola was locally abundant. Lizards (primarily Uta stansburiana) and their eggs were the most common food items, but anurans may also be important prey.
10.2307/3670961|Genetic and morphologic characteristics were analysed and compared for Sylvilagus audubonii and S. floridanus collected from two locations in Texas. The two species are genetically similar (S = 0.884). Mean individual heterozygosity was calculated to be 0.028 and 0.045 for S. floridanus and S. audubonii respectively. Species differences were detected in 11 of 22 morphologic characters. Significant differences in variable means were not reflected in significant size and shape differences among variability profiles.
10.2307/3670962|Hardwood-redcedar clusters occur when several redcedars (Juniperus virginiana) germinate and grow beneath the canopy of a single live hardwood tree. Of 187 redcedars observed in 12 clusters, 92% occurred within four m of the cluster center. Redcedar numbers ranged from 6 to 28 per cluster (16  7 (x  SD)). When the 12 clusters were divided into two types based on the presence (n = 7) or absence (n = 5) of a live post oak center tree, clusters without a live center tree had redcedar with greater height (6.28  2.13 vs 3.87  1.59 m) and greater redcedar dispersion (average distance of redcedars from cluster center: 2.57  1.50 vs 1.95  1.02 m). Clusters are common in the post oak savanna region, and appear to occur in high density patches following the co-occurrence of hardwoods and redcedars. The vegetation dynamics of clusters is unknown.
10.2307/3670963|Two digestion trials were conducted with six adult collared peccaries (Tayassu tajacu) to determine the effect of diet on digestive efficiency. Digestive efficiency of all nutrients except either extract was higher (P < 0.05) for a low fiber diet (19.1% NDF) than for a high fiber diet (45.7% NDF); digestible energy intake was similar (P > 0.05) for both diets and exceeded maintenance requirements. Mean rate of digesta passage of the high fiber diet was 52.5 h. The peccaries digested fiber efficiently, which we attribute to the slow rate of digesta passage. Mean daily feed intake was higher (P < 0.01) during a four week summer period than during a four week winter period.
10.2307/3670964|Supercooling points were determined for worker larvae, worker pupae, minor workers, medium workers, major workers, reproductive caste larvae, male and female pupae, and male and female adults of Solenopsis aurea, S. geminata, S. invicta, S. richteri and S. xyloni. The worker caste had a slightly lower supercooling point than the reproductive caste. Within each species adults had a higher mean supercooling temperature (-7 C to -12 C) than immatures, and larvae had a higher supercooling temperature (-8 C to -16 C) than the pupae (-16 C to -24 C). Nest construction appears to be more significant in explaining the northward distribution of fire ants in North America than do their limited physiological adaptations toward coldhardiness. The three species which build mounds riddled with galleries (S. geminata, S. invicta, S. richteri) rarely occur north of the -12.2 C January isotherm; whereas the two species without such "drafty" mounds (S. aurea, S. xyloni) occur north of the -20.6 C January isotherm.
10.2307/3670965|Cyprinodon variegatus hubbsi, which recently was reduced to subspecies status by Johnson (1974), is endemic to eight lakes (Carlton, Beauclair, Dora, Harris, Eustis, Yale, Griffin and Weir) in the upper Oklawaha River, St. Johns River drainage of central Florida. Biological and geological evidence indicate C. v. hubbsi evolved from a population of Gulf C. v. variegatus that became isolated in marine lagoons at the present site of the Oklawaha River headwaters. The characteristic habitat of the species is narrow, wave-washed, shallow strips of clean, sandy beaches. Cyprinodon v. hubbsi comprised 4% of the total number of fishes and appeared in 54% of seine collections. Considering abundance data, the vulnerability of the habitat to degradation, and its limited range, the conservation status of C. v. hubbsi is reduced from "threatened" to "species of special concern" by the Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission.
10.2307/3670554|Morphologic variation in the coyote, Canis latrans, from the southern United States was examined using univariate and multivariate statistical analyses. The taxon was sexually dimorphic with male skulls larger for 20 of 21 characters assessed. Fourteen male and 12 female measurements showed significant interlocality variation. A matrix of correlation among characters was computed, and the first three principal components were extracted. These accounted for 87.9% of the total phenetic variance in the character set of males of 94.1% among females. Three-dimensional projection of localities onto principal components showed that, for both males and females, large individuals occurred in more eastern localities (male--eastern Texas, Louisiana, and Mississippi; female--Louisiana, Tennessee, Arkansas, Mississippi, and eastern Texas) and smaller animals occupied western localities (western Texas, Oklahoma, and Missouri). In general, coyotes were most similar to those in nearby geographic areas. Large size for both sexes was positively correlated with high actual evapotranspiration.
10.2307/3670555|In a 2.5 year (1978-1980) study of the lotic warmwater fish communities of the Platte River Basin, Colorado, 25 native and 9 non-native species were collected. Three natives (Nocomis biguttatus, Couesius plumbeus, and Notropis heterolepis) have been extirpated. Salmo clarki stomias was not collected, nor were the provisional natives, Stizostedion vitreum and Carpiodes cyprinus. Eleven native species were rare in the basin. The rarity of each was strongly correlated with their limited historic distributions, rather special habitat requirements, and intolerance of environmental stresses. Six native species were historically more common and widespread, but habitat deterioration associated with European settlement has caused their decline. The remaining native species (8) were common and widely distributed. The common carp (Cyprinus carpio) was the only common non-native fish. Lack of suitable habitat is believed responsible for the rarity of other non-native species.
10.2307/3670556|Holographis websteri, distinguished by distichous branching and small corollas, and Mirandea andradenia, distinguished by narrow, linear to linear-oblanceolate leaves, long bracts and bractlets, glandular filaments, and glabrous capsules, are described from Campeche and Tamaulipas respectively. The new combination Odontonema auriculatum is made based on Jacobinia auriculata Rose. An illustration of H. websteri, a key to the species of Mirandea, and a key to the species of Odontonema in the Nueva Galicia region of western Mexico are provided.
10.2307/3670557|Recovery of chaparral after wildfires was studied at five sites along an elevational gradient from 300 to 1550 m. In January, two months after fire, shrubs at all sites had begun resprouting but no shrub seedlings were present. Shrub resprouts were more abundant at the higher elevations although by June average shrub size was smaller at the higher than at the lower elevations. Initial shrub seedling densities were much higher than often reported for southern California chaparral and was probably due to sampling early in the growing season. Estimates of seedling mortality from March to June ranged from 68% to 98% and was dependent on the species. Herbaceous vegetation was most extensively developed at the lowest elevation site. At some sites, herbaceous perennials were a major part of the cover and these species typically established early in the season, largely from resprouts. Annuals were abundant at all but the highest elevation site and non-native annaul species dominated the flora at the lowest elevation site.
10.2307/3670558| The reproduction of the blacktail shiner, Notropis venustus cercostigma, in Catahoula Creek, Hancock County, Mississippi, was studied using monthly collections. Reproduction occurred from late March-early October; however, assessments of the reproductive condition of females showed that most females were reproductive from April-August or early September. Clutch sizes ranged from 139-459 ova in females 48.6-72.0 mm standard length (SL). The linear equation describing the relationship between clutch size (F = fecundity) and standard length is F = 411.639 + 11.830 (SL) (r = 0.789, n = 30, P<0.01). Mean mature ovum diameters in females examined to determine clutch sizes varied from 0.97-1.34 mm diameter. There was no significant correlation between mean mature ovum diameter and SL. Average mature ovum diameter was 1.15 mm (0.02). Ovarian weight-somatic body weight ratios were 5.8-19.1%, were not significantly correlated with SL, and averaged 12.5% (0.7). All females greater than or equal to 42 mm SL were sexually mature. 
10.2307/3670559|Northern cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) territory and nest vegetation were studied in three different aged pine-hardwood forest stands in eastern Texas during 1979. Cardinals nested primarily in small trees and shrubs. Placement of the nest within the tree did not follow a pattern, but appeared to be dependent upon foliage density within the plant. Vegetation at three m and below was more uniform at nest sites than elsewhere in the territories, suggesting that cardinals selected certain foliage densities within their territory for nest sites. Nest sites were generally found in "edge-like" habitat even if nests were in mature forest conditions. Although they are a ubiquitous species, cardinals have specific habitat requirements that are met by a wide range of forest conditions.
10.2307/3670560|We recorded area of mined leaves and mines and pupal weight of a facultative communal leaf miner, Cameraria, on Emory oak in central Arizona. Pupae from doubly-mined leaves with separate mines were significantly heavier than pupae with merged mines (communal) and pupae that occurred alone on leaves. Leaf area and mine area were also positively correlated, but only in singly-minded leaves. Our results show that leaf size and within-leaf density both have important implications for weight attained at pupation. Eggs oviposited on small leaves are at a competitive disadvantage to those on large leaves. We suggest energy and time constraints on females prohibit them from selecting only large leaves for oviposition.
10.2307/3670561| Aspects of the life history of the Arkansas darter were studied in the Spring River of southwest Missouri. Maximum age was 3 years for both sexes but the population was dominated by individuals less than 2 years old. These fish grew rapidly in the first year and both sexes became sexually mature at 1 year or less. Females attained larger sizes and were more numerous than males (1.2:1 respectively). The largest female taken was 63 mm SL; the largest male was 54 mm SL. The spawning period extended from mid-February to mid-July in water that ranged in temperature from 9 to 17C. Females apparently spawned more than once and average-sized individuals contained 294 to 472 ova  0.55 mm in diameter from early February through mid-May. 
10.2307/3670562|Two predator control efforts by government agencies were intended to benefit the Kaibib deer herd of northern Arizona. The first, 1906-1923, aimed at all large carnivores but mostly mountain lions and did not rely on poisons. The second, 1940-1963, was specifically for coyotes and after 1947 employed compound 1080 supplemented by steel traps. The first program removed many lions but did not exterminate the population although wolves were extirpated. The poisoning effort temporarily suppressed coyote numbers as judged by trapping success. Abnormally high deer densities developed during both eras of predator control but both efforts failed to sustain normal rates of deer production. Predator poisoning did seem to boost fawn and yearling survival for 1 or 2 seasons but that potential benefit was canceled by excessive deer numbers and inadequate forage per capita. Higher mean annual indices of deer production have since occurred without predator poisoning.
10.2307/3670563|Populations of Gila trout, Salmo gilae, and Apache trout, S. apache, from New Mexico and Arizona, respectively, as well as a trout, Salmo sp., population from the Rio Mayo, Mexico, were analyzed for protein polymorphisms at 36 presumptive genetic loci using starch gel electrophoresis. These data were used: 1) to identify the genetic differentiation between these populations and rainbow trout, S. gairdneri, and cutthroat trout, S. clarki, and; 2) to evaluate purported hybridization between the native populations and introduced rainbow trout. Salmo gilae and S. apache were more similar to each other than either was to S. gairdneri, S. clarki, or Rio Mayo Salmo. Salmo gairdneri showed a greater genetic identity to S. gilae, S. apache, and Rio Mayo Salmo than did S. clarki. In eight of the nine localities inhabited by putative hybrids, no evidence of hybridization was detected. Four streams were inhabited by unhybridized S. apache and four streams inhabited by S. gairdneri. In the latter four streams, S. gairdneri has presumably replaced the native species. In one location the entire sample consisted of hybrids.
10.2307/3670564|The production, density and height of flower stalks of Andropogon gerardii, Schizachyrium scoparium and Sorghastrum nutans were surveyed over a four-year period (1981-1984) on burned vs. unburned and shallow vs. deep soil sites in native, undisturbed tallgrass prairie. In general, flower stalk height was greater on deep than the shallow soils but the response of height to fire was variable. In contrast, density and production of flower stalks were usually greater on the annually burned sites, whereas soil effects were inconsistent. Production of flower stalks for all three species combined ranged from 0 to 670 g/m
10.2307/3671832|Analysis of matrix from a small cave near Ciudad Jimenez, Chihuahua, Mexico, has revealed some fossils of probable Late Pleistocene-Holocene age. Extinct taxa include Capromeryx and Coragyps occidentalis. Extralimital finds include Microtus pennsylvanicus, Cryptotis parva, Neotoma lepida, Cynomys sp., and Mustela nigripes. Other possible extralimital forms are Neotoma? micropus, Neotoma cf. floridana, Neotoma? cinerea, and? Oreortyx pictus. A new genus of rabbit is being described by Russell and Harris. Aquatic forms comprise the majority of the avian remains. Shells of the mollusk Humboldtiana cf. torrei were recovered. Lack of provenience data and accurate dates on the remains prevents any certain paleoreconstruction of the environment. However, speculation from the forms recovered indicates that the Late Pleistocene-Holocene of southwest Chihuahua probably was more mesic than today.
10.2307/3671833|Antler characteristics of southern mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus fuliginatus) and the relationship of these structures to male dominance were studied in Cuyamaca Rancho State Park, San Diego County, California during 1977-1979. Number of antler tines correlated positively with antler characteristics related to the overall size of antlers. The mean date for the shedding of antler velvet was 17 September; the mean date of antler casting was 24 February. Males in larger antler classes tended to shed their velvet and cast their antlers earlier, and performed more aggressive and sexual behaviors than smaller-antlered males. Males interacted aggressively more often with opponents in the same antler class than with those in different classes. Males in larger antler classes typically defeated smaller-antlered opponents. Only males with large antlers were observed to copulate with females. Number of antler times provided a reliable measure of social rank and perhaps reproductive success for male southern mule deer.
10.2307/3671834|Seasonal testicular changes were studied in 34 specimens of the red-eared turtle (Pseudemys scripta elegans) from May 1982 throuqh April 1983. Turtles were collected at two sites in Randall County, Texas. Histological examination of the testes revealed that gonial proliferation was in progress by mid-May. Maximum sperm production occurred durinq August and September and was coincident with maximum testis weight. Mature spermatozoa were transferred to the epididymides for storage over the winter. Epididymal weight was greatest in December prior to hibernation. Spermatozoa were present in the epididymal tubules throughout the year. Seasonal changes in the weight of the testes and epididymides were coincident with spermatogenic activity.
10.2307/3671835|More than 900 specimens of Hypsiglena were examined for geographic variation in Mexico and southwestern United States, exclusive of California and Baja California. Statistical analyses suggest that all samples of Hypsiglena from the central and eastern part of the range represent a single taxon, H. torquata jani, with H. t. texana and H. t. dunklei as synonyms. The western samples appear to represent two species with a very narrow and distinct hybrid zone in northern Sinaloa and southern Sonora. Because genic and karyotypic data are not available, we accept the status quo for the present and recognize the western Pacific samples as H. t. torquata, and H. t. chlorophaea. Hypsiglena t. affinis is also retained as a distinct subspecies. Hypsiglena tanzeri is considered as valid because intergradation has not been shown to exist between it and H. t. jani in areas of near sympatry.
10.2307/3671836|A garden plot transplant study of four shrub species native to the Piceance Basin and other areas of Colorado and southern Wyoming showed three patterns of intraspecific genetic variation. 1) Negligible variation occurred among populations of Purshia tridentata (bitterbrush) and Cercocarpus montanus (mountain mahogany). 2) Interpopulation variation occurred among Symphoricarpos oreophilus (snowberry) populations, but most of the differences could not be interpreted on an adaptive basis because no strict correspondence between plant trait and biotic or abiotic habitat features was found. Either several adaptive combinations exist within this species or selection is relatively unimportant in accounting for the distribution of S. oreophilus in the landscape. 3) Genetic variation among populations of Amelanchier utahensis (serviceberry) corresponded, in part, with the community of origin. Populations from Douglas fir and aspen communities had large leaves, long stems, and slow growth, indicative of adaptation to a closed canopy. Populations from open sagebrush and pion-juniper communities generally had small leaves and short stems, suggestive of selection in a water--but not light--limited environment. Populations from mixed mesic shrub communities had short stems and rapid growth in contrast to plants from mixed xeric shrub communities. But even for this species the constraint of selection may be accompanied in the landscape by other causes of genetic differentiation.
10.2307/3671837|El presete trabajo aporta iformacin sobre el patr reproductivo de Sturnira lilium parvidens co base en la revision de 300 ejemplares, proveientes de la regin costera de los estados de Nayarit, Colima, Michoacn, Guerrero y Oaxaca. Se determina la proporcin total de sexos, 1.04 machos por cada hembra, as como tres periodos de preez que corresponden a los meses de febrero-marzo, julio-agosto-septiembre y noviembre-diciembre, se encuentran dos periodos de mayor lactancia durante los meses de abril a junio y de septiembre a noviembre, insinundose un tercero para los meses de enero-febrero. Se registran juveniles en febrero-marzo, mayo-junio y octubre-noviembre. Considerando lo anterior, se establece un patrn reproductivo polistrico contnuo, con tres periodos de mayor actividad para esta subespecie. /// The reproductive pattern of the stenodermatine bat, Sturnira lilium parvidens, was studied based on an examination of bats collected from coastal regions of the Mexican states of Nayarit, Colima, Michoacn, Guerrero and Oaxaca. Pregnant females were obtained in all months of the year except June and October. Three peak pregnancy periods were observed; these were February to March, July to September, and November to December. Two lactational periods were noted; these were April to June and September to November. Juveniles were most readily captured in February to March, May to June, and October to November. These data indicated that the reproductive pattern of this species is continuous polyestry with three periods of maximal reproductive activity.
10.2307/3671838|A new species, Hydroporus williami is described from New Mexico, Colorado, Arizona, Utah, and California.
10.2307/3671839|Cluster analysis was used to classify the riparian vegetation of the Fort Bayard watershed into eight plant communities. Communities identified represent residual vegetation after a severe grazing and deforestation impact. Populus and Juglans communities persisted on mostly shallow, recently deposited Ustifluvents of lower elevations. At higher elevations, Acer and Alnus communities occurred on moderate to very deep Ustifluvents or Haplustolls. Populus and Salix showed poor reproduction under dense canopies which suggested they were pioneer species. Soils were found to be Mollic Ustifluvents, Aquic Ustifluvents, Aquic Haplustolls, and Cumulic Haplustolls.
10.2307/3671840|Body weights of 4155 green-winged teal (Anas crecca) and 380 northern pintails (A. acuta) were measured on the Southern High Plains of Texas from October through March, 1980-81 and 1981-82. Body weights for both species usually were less than previously reported and weight cycles during winter were not synchronous between species. For teal, average weights of each sex and age class increased from October to December, decreased to lowest levels in February, and increased again in March. Weights of northern pintails were highest in October and declined thereafter. Possible relationships are discussed between fluctuations in winter body weights and pairing chronology of these and other Anatinae.
10.2307/3671841|A revegetation study was conducted on a 20-year-old abandoned cropland site in the Post Oak Savannah region of Texas to evaluate the establishment of Helianthus maximiliani Schrad. (Maximilian sunflower) in a dense cover of vegetation by drill seeding, and rhizome and whole crown plantings. Percent establishment, canopy cover, plant height, total aboveground biomass, and number of shoots per plant were monitored for two growing seasons. A small number of seedlings emerged following seeding, but failed to establish in the resident vegetation. High levels of total nonstructural carbohydrate reserves in rhizomes and whole crowns enhanced early root and canopy development, which allowed vegetative establishment. Plant establishment and growth from rhizome sections was greatest when large rhizomes were collected in late winter/early spring and planted at a four cm depth. When compared to rhizomes, whole crowns exhibited earlier and higher establishment, and developed into plants with greater basal shoot densities, aboveground biomass, and canopy cover.
10.2307/3671842|Fish species diversity in Spring Creek (Oklahoma) of the Neosho River drainage was positively correlated with habitat diversity, and in the upper half of the stream was inversely correlated with distance from the stream source. Diversity was comparably high at downstream and upstream locations. The unusual pattern in species diversity, which is contrary to the usual pattern of low upstream and high downstream diversity, is likely the result of high fish species diversity existing only in diverse habitats, while in interrupted Spring Creek habitat diversity does not generally increase in a downstream direction.
10.2307/3671843|Electrophoretic variation was studied in a population of the ant Paraponera clavata (F.) on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Nineteen of 20 loci were monomorphic, and variation was found in only one of 26 colonies. All twenty workers examined from this colony were heterozygous for an alternate allele at Est-3. The expected level of heterozygosity () of the population was 0.001, one of the lowest reported for ants. This value is consistent with the generally observed low level of genetic variation among hymenopterans. Some evidence was found for the presence of only one singly mated queen per colony of P. clavata.
10.2307/3671844|Gopherus berlandieri at Laguna Atascosa National Wildlife Refuge (LANWR) frequented lomas (ridges with mesquital); few were present in sacahuistal (low, salty grasslands). We caught more males than females. Tortoises had two diel activity periods with most activity in the late morning. Individuals from LANWR and other coastal areas were larger than inland populations. We found a significant positive correlation between mass and length in LANWR G. berlandieri. Since this refuge is one of the largest tracts of natural or semi-natural vegetation in the lower Rio Grande Valley, we recommend restriction of tillage and cattle grazing to areas away from lomas, and prescribed burns to enhance tortoise habitat.
10.2307/3671699|Previous published records, new records, drainage, habitat preference, altitudinal range, and adult collection dates are presented for 176 species in 15 families of Colorado Trichoptera. Of this listing 53 species are new records for Colorado.
10.2307/3671700|The Pecos gambusia, Gambusia nobilis (Baird and Girard), is endemic to the Pecos River drainage of west Texas and southeast New Mexico. Principal components analyses of meristic and mensural data indicate three subsets among the 11 populations of G. nobilis examined: 1) the Blue Spring, New Mexico, population, 2) the Texas populations from Comanche Springs (now extinct) and three springs (Phantom Lake, Giffin, and East Sandia) in the Toyah Creek drainage near Balmorhea, and 3) the populations in the Roswell area of New Mexico and the Leon Creek drainage of Texas which are morphologically intermediate between subsets 1 and 2. These morphologically defined subsets cannot be associated with any obvious environmental feature, and they show little geographic cohesiveness. For these reasons, subspecific designations seem unwarranted. The populations most critical to maintaining present morphological variation are those in three springs of the Toyah Creek drainage, Texas, and the one in Blue Spring, New Mexico.
10.2307/3671701|The spatial distribution of the saguaro (Carnegiea gigantea) was studied with respect to its occurrence in open space or space covered by various perennial plant species at Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, Arizona. Saguaros occurred significantly less often than expected in the open and significantly more often than expected under the canopies of perennial plants. Saguaros were associated with other species about as often as expected on the basis of their relative cover values, with two exceptions. They were found growing in association with Larrea tridentata significantly less often than expected, and with Prosopis juliflora and Cercidium microphyllum more often than expected. The degree of association with the varius perennial plant species did not change with age of the saguaro for saguaros exceeding about 19 years of age (10 cm in height). Abundance of saguaro seeds was recorded from directly beneath the canopy of C. microphyllum, at the edge of its canopy, and one m out from the canopy. Seed densities decreased significantly with distance from the base of the nurse tree. Such nonrandom seed dispersion resulting from differential seed predation or differential seed dispersal is a potentially important factor contributing to the dispersion patterns of adult saguaros.
10.2307/3671702|The Maybelle Member of the Lueders Formation, lower Permian of north-central Texas, includes approximately 8 m of alternating marine and terrestrial (fresh-water) sediments. The unit has long been termed the "Maybelle limestones," but the rocks consist of dolostone, dolomitic siltstones and shale. There are no limestones. The environment was deltaic, with shifting freshwater streams depositing terrestrial sediments on the muddy bottom of a shallow estuary. Conditions were not suitable for preservation of invertebrate shells, but invertebrate trace fossils are locally abundant in the dolostone sections. Fossils of marine sharks, bradyodonts, and marine fishes are preserved in the dolostone, while fossils of freshwater fishes, amphibians and reptiles are present in the dark terrestial sediments. Mudcracks and footprints of large amphibians and reptiles show that the marine muds were occasionally exposed. Remains of 15 vertebrate taxa are identified.
10.2307/3671703|"Buffalo wallows" are depressions formed in North American grasslands by the trampling and dust-bathing of bison (Bison bison). Plant species composition and resource availability within these concave depressions differ from that of the surrounding grassland. The vegetation and soil characteristics of wallows still subject to bison activity were examined in order to possibly relate plant species heterogeneity to edaphic factors. Ordination analysis demonstrated that species cover and composition differed among wallows. Vegetational heterogeneity among wallows was related to differences in several edaphic parameters. Regression analyses indicated that differences in vegetational composition were most consistently correlated with differences in soil texture, ammonium-nitrogen and sodium. These differences, together with probabilistic events in species establishment and recurrent disturbances, produce the diverse vegetation of wallows. The heterogeneous species assemblages of wallows enhance grassland species diversity primarily because wallows increase habitat diversity.
10.2307/3671704|A diverse and widespread winter stonefly fauna exists in the mountainous region centered on the Gila National Forest in southwestern New Mexico. Collecting from 1979 through 1984 and access to past collections have vastly increased knowledge of the regional winter stonefly fauna. Important additions include: one new record for New Mexico, Capnia californica (Claassen) 1924; new records for the southwestern four-county area, Isocapnia vedderensis (Ricker) 1943, Taenionema pacificum (Banks) 1902, Capnia fibula Claassen 1924, Prostoia besametsa (Ricker) 1952, and Skwala parallela (Frison) 1936; and new distributional records for several other species, including the recently-described Taenionema sp. A Stanger and Baumann, in press. Based on this recent collection information, zoogeographical and ecological details are offered regarding the role of the study area as part of a refuge for winter stoneflies during the Pleistocene glaciations. Different stream habitat preferences are also exhibited by several species in the area.
10.2307/3671705|Decay rates, nutrient content and invertebrates associated with American elm leaves were examined in an intermittent and a perennial stream draining adjacent tallgrass prairie watersheds (Konza Prairie, Kansas). Both streams were flowing in November 1981 when leaf packs were placed in the channel. Elm leaves decayed faster in the perennial stream than in either of two intermittent sites. Decay rates were not different between the two intermittent sites. There were no significant differences among sites in either nitrogen (N) or phosphorus (P) concentrations or carbon to nitrogen (C:N) ratios in elm leaves. N concentrations of the leaves increased during decomposition whereas P decreased in concentration for the first two months and then increased; C:N ratios in elm leaves decreased during decomposition. Initial leaching of leaves may provide a nutrient input into prairie streams; but decomposing leaf material may also act as a nutrient sink and compete with other ecosystem processes. Shredder insects were low in abundance or absent from leaf packs.
10.2307/3671706|A total of 12,088 aquatic Coleoptera was collected from Arkansas rice fields. Taxa identified included five families, 20 genera and 25 species. Of the adults, 91.6% were herbivorous or scavengers and 8.4% were predaceous. Of the larvae, 95.1% were predaceous and 4.9% were herbivorous or scavengers. The genus Tropisternus comprised 29.8 and 59.9% of the total adults and larvae, respectively. Laccophilus comprised 7.4 and 19.3% of the adults and larvae, respectively. Fields treated with carbofuran and stocked with fish had mean densities of predatory Coleoptera significantly lower than the untreated check fields. Fields treated with molinate and late-planted fields were not significantly different from untreated check fields. Diversity was somewhat lower in fields stocked with fish and late-planted fields and unaffected in carbofuran-treated fields and untreated check fields. Diversity was greatest in molinate-treated fields. Data on species equitability suggest predatory fish may feed differentially on the predatory beetle stages.
10.2307/3672002|Eulimnadia texana Packard occurred in seven of more than 200 rice fields in southwestern Louisiana sampled (1983-1984) for mosquito larvae. In two fields, only a single adult E. texana was found, but hundreds to thousands of adults were found in 5 other fields. Studies of these populations showed that the adults were present 4-7 days post-flooding of a field and absent 9 days post-flooding. The habitat, seasonal flooding and basic life history of E. texana in this region are discussed.
10.2307/3672003|Noteworthy range extensions are reported for two species of Costa Rican pocket gophers, Orthogeomys underwoodi and O. cherriei. New records document a ten-fold increase in the range of O. underwoodi, now known to occur along a 150-km strip of Pacific coastal lowlands. Orthogeomys cherriei, formerly recorded only from the Caribbean watershed, is now known from Guanacaste and Puntarenas provinces on the Pacific versant. The two species may be sympatric in northern Puntarenas Province. The conspicuous dorsal pelage markings that characterize these species are found in low frequencies in other species of the genus. We postulate that these markings may have no adaptive significance; fixation in these species may be the result of stochastic processes. /// Notable expansines en la distribucin de dos especies de taltuzas de Costa Rica, Orthogeomys underwoodi y O. cherriei, son reportadas. Nuevos registros prueban que las reas ocupadas por O. underwoodi han anmentado diez veces, esta especie se conoce ahora ocurriendo a lo largo de una faja de 150 km de tierras costeras bajas en el Pacfico. Orthogeomys cherriei, previamente registrada solo en la costa del Caribe, se conoce actualmente en las provincias de Guanacaste y Puntarenas, ambas en la vertiente del Pacfico. Las dos especies en la parte norte de la provincia de Puntarenas parecieran ser simptricas. Las marcas conspicuas en el pelaje del dorso, que caracterizan a estas especies, se encuentran con poca frecuencia en otras especies del gnero. Nosotros postulamos que es posible que estas marcas no tengan significado adaptativo pudiendo ser la fijacin en estas especies resultado de procesos estocsticos.
10.2307/3672004|Clutch parameters of anurans breeding in temporary and permanent ponds in the Chihuahuan Desert differ and appear to reflect the selective regime within each pond type. Permanent ponds contain many predators and the tadpoles appear to be good at avoiding predators. Females using these ponds produce large clutches containing many small eggs. Temporary ponds appear to be areas of intense larval competition and females using these ponds produce small clutches composed of few relatively large eggs. Strong, divergent selection pressures in temporary and permanent ponds appear to be responsible for determining the breeding pond type each species uses in the Chihuahuan Desert.
10.2307/3672005|The vegetation of a large, unnamed canyon arroyo and the lower slopes of the bordering pediments at Punta Cirio, Sonora, Mexico, was sampled. A total of 27 species was encountered. The arroyo was dominated by Opuntia bigelovii, Ambrosia dumosa, and Jatropha cuneata, the south-facing pediment by Encelia farinosa and J. cuneata, and the north-facing pediment by E. farinosa, J. cuneata, Ambrosia deltoidea, and A. dumosa. Compared to the slopes, the arroyo had a significantly lower species richness, per plot, diversity, and density. Reciprocal averaging ordination of the samples from the entire area showed a gradual transition from arroyo plots to slope plots. Ordination of the arroyo plots alone resulted in a spread between the lower and upper halves of the arroyo, caused primarily by the distributions of A. dumosa and E. farinosa. Slope aspect and soil texture, as they influence water availability, and the nature of the soil surface were considered as possible factors in influencing community differences of the three areas.
10.2307/3672006|Flowering patterns for a central Illinois tallgrass prairie were studied during the 1983 growing season and compared with those for prairies in Wisconsin and Oklahoma. The distribution of species in flower per month was significantly different (p < 0.05) between the Oklahoma, Wisconsin, and Illinois sites. Species that initiated flowering after July 15 tended to flower earlier at northern locations than at southern ones. The number of species in flower per month was correlated with long-term mean monthly temperature and precipitation at all three locations.
10.2307/3672007|The competitive interactions of bumblebees (Bombus spp.) on a patch of nectar-producing Vicia dasycarpus [Leguminosae] at Hastings' Natural History Reservation, Monterey Country, California, were studied during the spring of 1979 and 1980. Characteristics of selected racemes, handling time per raceme, number of flowers visited per raceme, transit time between racemes, and thoroughness of nectar removal from flowers were determined in the field for each bee species. These parameters were compared to the production and standing crop of nectar sampled thoughout the day. An experimental removal and subsequent reintroduction of the most numerous, longest tongued bees was performed in order to reveal its influence upon the remaining species. The depth to which each species could extract nectar was determined in the lab by an artificial flower apparatus where bees removed a sugar solution from wells of various depths. Eight species of bees commonly foraged for nectar in Vicia during 1979 but only two species, Bombus californicus queens and Synhalonia frater, were present in 1980. These were the species that, in 1979, had the longest and one of the shortest measured proboscides. Racemes of Vicia had about one-third fewer flowers in 1980 than in 1979 and fewer flowers produced nectar in 1980 when compared to 1979. This led to a 13-fold reduction of potentially nectar producing flowers and a four-fold reduction in consumer biomass in 1980. When the long-tongued species, B. californicus queens were removed from the patch in 1980, other bumblebee queens (B. vosnesenskii and B. caliginosis) appeared in the patch for the first time that year. B. vosnesenskii and B. caliginosis queens showed nearly perfect density compensation in biomass with the removed species. When B. californicus queens were reintroduced into the patch, the other bumblebee species abandoned the patch. The foraging ecology of S. frater in the patch was relatively unaffected by these experiments. No aggressive interactions were observed between any species. These data suggest that exploitative interspecific competition for limiting nectar resources was a major influence upon the presence and behavior of bumblebees exploiting the nectar of the Vicia patch in 1980 but not in 1979. The longer tongued B. californicus queens passively excluded B. vosnesneskii and B. caliginosis queens during the resource limited 1980 season. The superior ability of B. californicus queens to remove nectar from flowers was due to their greater speed in processing and traveling between inflorescences as well as their ability to withdraw nectar at greater depths when compared to the other species. Total probiscis length (glossa + prementum), rather than tongue length alone appears to be a truer approximation of the depth to which these species are able to withdraw nectar.
10.2307/3672008|Variation was evaluated in 206 adult Dipodomys elator from three populations in northern Texas. Males were significantly larger then females for 10 of 20 characters, and significant geographic variation occurred in 11 of 19 characters for males and 9 of 19 characters for females. Males from Hardeman Co. were significantly larger than females for total length, body length, hind foot length, greatest depth of cranium, and zygomatic width, whereas those from Wichita Co. were significantly larger for basal length of cranium and nasal length. Females from Wilbarger Co. averaged larger than those from Hardeman and Wichita counties in most characters but those from Hardeman Co. were significantly largest for total length and tail length and smallest for basal length of cranium. Sexual differences were greater in specimens from Hardeman and Wichita counties than in specimens from Wilbarger Co.
10.2307/3672009|Great Salt Lake brine shrimp were cultured and collected for analysis of dry weight, ash weight, percent carbohydrate, percent lipid, fatty acid profile, percent protein, and amino acid profile. The GSL strain is similar in gross biochemical composition to adult Artemia collected in San Francisco Bay and Mono Lake.
10.2307/3672010|Se describe una nueva especie de concostraco de la familia Lynceidae, Paralimnetis mapimi colectada en el Bolsn de Mapim en los estados de Chihuahua y Durango, Mxico. Este trabajo representa el primer registro del gnero en Norteamrica, antes conocido nicamente de Paraguay en Sudamrica. Las principales caractersticas diagnsticas de la forma nueva son: La superficie de masticacin de la mandbula lleva en el borde anterior 4 dientes muy delgados y agudos; en seguida se distribuyen por toda la superficie 15 pares de dientes semejantes a colmillos, ms 2 grandes dientes impares que tienen de dos a cuatro cspides y el ms posterior un diente impar unicspide, agudo y de mayor tamao que todos los anteriores. El dedo mvil de la pinza izquierda presenta un proceso aplanado sobresaliente que surge en la mitad del borde anterior de la cara prensil; en vista posterior, el contorno externo de la mitad proximal del mismo dedo es prominente formando una elevacin truncada en forma de meseta. El endito 5 de la pata II izquierda es de estructura mayormente laminar y de base ancha de tal manera que el endito 6 queda situado anterior y aproximadamente en la mitad de la extensin de su base. /// This paper presents a description of a new conchostracan, Paralimnetis mapimi, new species, collected at the Bolsn de Mapim in Chihuahua and Durango, Mxico. This work represents the first record of the genus in North America, previously known from Paraguay, South America. The main diagnostic features of P. mapimi are: the mandible has in the mastication surface, four slender and acute teeth on the anterior edge; fifteen pairs of canine-shaped teeth lengthwise the surface, plus two unpaired teeth that have from two to four apices, and the most posterior and biggest of all, one unpaired tooth with an acute apex. The movable finger of the left clasper presents a flattened process in the middle of the anterior border of the prensil side; in posterior view of the same finger, the external margin of the proximal half is like a prominent truncated process. In the left leg II, the endite 5 is mainly of laminar structure and its base is wide, in such a way that the endite 6 lays anterior and approximately at half the extension of its base.
10.2307/3672011|A key to the identification of tadpoles of Mexican anurans in stages 25-40 of Gosner is presented. About 127 species of anurans in Mexico have free-living aquatic tadpoles, and about 78% have been identified.
10.2307/3672012|Nineteen species of helminth parasites and six species of ectoparasites were recovered from 33 American avocets, Revurvirostra ameriana Gmelin, collected from southwestern Texas and south-central Colorado. New host records are marked with an asterisk. The metazoan parasites are: Accacoeliidae, Cyclocoelum vanelli, Cyclocoelum lanceolatum, Cyclocoelum tringae, * Notocotylus linearis, * Notocotylus stagnicolae, * Parastrigea mexicanus, Paramostomum malerischi, * Echinostoma revolutum, * Echinostoma sp., * Parorchis sp., * Cloacitrema sp., * Diplophallus coili, Hymenolepis recurvirostrae, Hymenolepis cervotestis, Sobolevicanthus coloradensis, Diorchis recurvirostrae, Capillaria recurvirostrae, Chevreuxia americana, Actornithophilus uniseriatus, Austromenopon micrandum, Cirrophthirus testudinarius, Quadraceps semifissus, Quadraceps zephyra, and Rhinonyssus himantopus. Diplophallus coili was the prevelant cestode and the prevalent helminth parasite, 93.9%. Sorenson's index of similarity for species of helminth parasites indicated that the cestodes were the most similar group among three geographic areas (Kansas-Colorado to southwestern Texas, 100%; Kansas-Colorado to Monte Vista, Colorado, 90%1 and southwestern Texas to Monte Vista, Colorado, 90%). The helminth parasite community consisted mostly of dominant (8) and successful immigrant species (7). A checklist of helminth parasites reported for the American avocet from North America is also provided.
10.2307/3672013|Preserved and laboratory maintained specimens of the checkered garter snake, Thamnophis marcianus from southern Texas and northeastern Mexico were examined for their reproductive characteristics. Female T. marcianus undergo follicular vitellogenesis primarily in the spring, however, some reproduction occurs in late summer. The variability in parturition dates suggests that some females are producing a single clutch in midsummer, whereas others have their young in late spring and/or late fall. This suggests that T. marcianus may sometimes alternate between producing a single clutch in one year and producing two clutches the next year. Clutch size, clutch weight and size of young increased with size of the female. However, relative clutch mass was not correlated to female size.
10.2307/3672014|The distribution and abundance of the flat-tailed horned lizard (Phrynosoma mcallii) was examined throughout Arizona. The species is restricted to 650-700 km<sup>2</sup> of desert lands in the extreme southwest corner of Arizona. Relative abundance was correlated with numbers of western whiptail (Cnemidophorus tigris) and active black harvester ant nests (Veromessor pergandei). Areas in which galleta grass (Hilaria rigida) was among the dominant perennial plants or in which surface soils were sandy had relatively high abundance indexes. A multiple regression equation is presented which predicts P. mcallii relative abundance based on numbers of V. pergandei nests encountered and the presence of H. rigida as a dominant plant.
10.2307/3672015|Behavioral interactions in an aoudad population were studied to investigate mother-young bonds. Examination of weaning data showed a drop in suckling durations until the fourth week of life when they levelled off. Neonates maintained close contact with their mothers. As the young grew older they formed small groups with their peers and engaged in play activity that was both frequent and long lasting. Frequent suckling, few refusals by mothers and regular playing by the young indicated that the population was in a healthy state.
10.2307/3672016|Foliar flavonoids were identified from 20 populations of Oenothera speciosa representing a major part of its geographical range, including areas where it is predominantly diploid (n 7) and tetraploid (n = 14). Nine flavonol glycosides and one flavonol sulfate based on kaempferol, quercetin and myricetin were found, six reported in this species for the first time. This is an unusually high number of compounds for a single species of Onagraceae. No geographical or cytological correlation was observed in the occurrence of the flavonol compounds. Two compounds occurred uniformly throughout all of the samples. The remainder occurred sporadically throughout the range of O. speciosa.
10.2307/3672017|In studies of a large colony of cliff swallows (Hirundo pyrrhonota) in northwest Arkansas, the life history of the tick Ixodes baergi was found to be synchronous with nesting activities of the birds. The swallows arrive in mid- to late April and begin nesting mid-May. Adult swallows roost on bluffs or in nests during nest construction and egg laying. Nests are completed by the last week in May and egg laying begins immediately. By mid-May, most larval ticks leave the crevice in which they hatched and move up the bluff. For their first engorgement, larvae attach to adult swallows that are incubating eggs or to newly hatched swallows. After engorging, the larvae leave the birds. For the second feeding, the nymphs attach to nestling swallows. The nymphs leave their hosts after feeding and molt to adulthood on the outside of the swallow nest. The third and last engorgement occurs during the first 2 weeks of July. The ticks again move to the outside of the nests and remain on the rough surface for a short period. During that time, engorged female ticks mate and move toward the base of the bluff to deposit their eggs in crevices of the bluff. About the same time, nestlings fledge and the swallows gather from several large colonies for fall migration. Although the tick eggs hatch in about 40 days, larvae remain in crevices until the following May. Ticks are probably transferred from site to site through intercolonial mixing of birds carrying ticks, especially early in the season.
10.2307/3671559|Nearly a half-century ago, Floyd L. Carter contacted the surviving original settlers of western Kansas and inquired about the kinds and relative abundance of mammals that occurred there at the time of settlement and in the years that followed. The responses Carter received are summarized herein.
10.2307/3671560|The reproductive ecology of Manfreda brachystachya was studied at the Pedregal de San Angel Preserve, in Mexico City. The floral characteristics of M. brachystachya are consistent with bat pollination, and the main pollinator was the Little Long-nosed bat (Leptonycteris sanborni Phyllostomatidae). Other bats, hawkmoths, and hummingbirds were minor pollinators, while perching birds and bees robbed nectar. The flowers were open for several days; nectar production was greatest during the first night and decreased with age. First day flowers were "male," and the two following days they were "female". The flowers were self-compatible but were not autogamous due to dichogamy and spatial separation. Two sites with similar numbers of plants but contrasting numbers of inflorescences were studied. Where inflorescences were dense, leaf rosettes were smaller, but fruit set was higher. /// Se estudila ecologa reproductiva de Manfreda brachystachya en la Reserva del Pedregal de San Angel, en la ciudad de Mxico. Las caractersticas de la flor de M. brachystachya son consistentes con la polinizacin por murcilagos, y el principal polinizador fu Leptonycteris sanborni (Phylostomatidae). Otros murcilagos, polillas de la familia esfingidae y colibres fueron polinizadores menores, mientras que algunas aves percheras y abejas robaban nctar. Las flores duraban abiertas varios das; durante la noche del primer da la produccin de nctar fue mxima, y decreci con la edad de la flor. En el primer da las flores se comportaban como "masculinas" y en el segundo y tercero como "femeninas." Las flores fueron autocompatibles, pero no autgamas debido a la separacin espacial y temporal entre las funciones femenina y masculina en una flor. Se estudiaron dos sitios con nmeros similares de plantas pero densidades contrastantes de inflorescencias. En el sitio con alta densidad de inflorescencias las plantas eran menores, pero produjeron mayor proporcin de frutos.
10.2307/3671561|Eighty-one specimens from 23 mammalian taxa were identified from 23 fossil packrat (Neotoma sp.) middens from the Hueco Mountains, El Paso and Hudspeth counties, Texas. Radiocarbon ages from the middens provide a detailed chronology for the fauna and associated plant macrofossils from 42,000 to 1,530 yr B.P. Middle and Late Wisconsin mammals whose ranges no longer include the Hueco Mountains are Geomys bursarius (plains pocket gopher), Microtus sp. (voles), Spermophilus cf. tridecemlineatus (thirteen-lined ground squirrel), and Sylvilagus cf. floridanus (eastern cottontail). Pinyon-juniper-oak woodland vegetation and animals were in the Hueco Mountains in the middle and Late Wisconsin. A xeric oak-juniper woodland persisted into the early Holocene with the modern Chihuahuan desertscrub forming in the late Holocene. The fauna suggests that open grassland habitats have occupied the sandy Hueco Bolson the entire time. Most of the important perennial grasses in modern southwestern grasslands were identified in the middle and Late Wisconsin pinyon-juniper-oak assemblages. The Hueco Mountains probably were near the southern limit of the expansion of the Great Basin biota during the Wisconsin. Leaves of Artemisia tridentata-type (big sagebrush) and Atriplex confertifolia (shadscale) were identified from a few middle and Late Wisconsin samples.
10.2307/3671562|Plain and Bridled Titmice were not interspecifically territorial, as previously reported in earlier literature; their distribution depended on the presence of their preferred tree species. The extent to which each species foraged in the other's preferred tree species was comparable but varied seasonally. Three categories of interspecific interaction were observed: 1) family flocks of the two species containing very young fledgings occasionally mixed, 2) dispersing Plain Titmice joined Bridled Titmouse family flocks, and 3) territorial adults of the two species associated in the fall. Their motivations for interacting are discussed.
10.2307/3671563|This paper compares thermal relations of two populations of the grasshopper, Circotettix rabula, from a montane (3,100 m) and a piedmont (2,100 m) habitat in central Colorado. Montane grasshoppers demonstrated a significantly lower minimum flying temperature, sexual display temperature, and maximum voluntarily tolerated temperature than their piedmont counterparts. Thermoregulatory performance, as indexed by the slope of the regression of body temperature on ambient temperature and correlation coefficients between these two variables, was found to be significantly better in montane forms than in piedmont ones. Within both populations thermoregulatory ability and independence from ambient temperature conditions were significantly higher in sexually displaying C. rabula than in non-displaying grasshoppers. The repertoire of thermoregulatory behavior in C. rabula as well as the significance of these findings with respect to the thermal limitations imposed by high altitude environments are discussed.
10.2307/3671564|The Black River drainage in Eddy County, New Mexico, was sampled at 22 locations from May 1977 to May 1979. Thirty-four fish species representing thirteen families were collected. Over one-half of the species were present at three or fewer sampling localities. State or federally-listed endangered species collected from Black River were the blue sucker (Cycleptus elongatus), gray redhorse (Moxostoma congestum), and the Pecos gambusia (Gambusia nobilis). State-listed threatened fishes included the Mexican tetra (Astyanax mexicanus), rainwater killifish (Lucania parva), greenthroat darter (Etheostoma lepidum), and roundnose minnow (Dionda episcopa). With the exceptions of the blue sucker and the greenthroat darter, all threatened or endangered species had stable populations. Environmental conditions and stocking influenced species distributions. A positive correlation was noted between species diversity and distance from the river source. The species composition of Black River is one of the most diverse in New Mexico.
10.2307/3671565|La lista zoogeogrfica y ecolgica de la ictiofauna continental de Chiapas, Mxico, se hizo en base al material colectado en 8 viajes, con 174 colectas y ms de 60,000 ejemplares depositados en la Coleccin Ictiolgica, Facultad de Ciencias Biolgicas, Universidad Autnoma de Nuevo Len, y de literatura; se colectaron 101 especies, y se citan 34 slo de literatura; en total 131 son conocidas y 4 indescritas, para un total de 135 especies, repartidas en 38 familias y 72 gneros; segn el origen zoogeogrfico son 72 continentales, 3 nerticas y 56 neotropicales y por su grupo ecolgico son 10 primarias, 54 secundarias, 67 perifricas, y slo 4 introducidas. Se incluye mencin de la regin fisiogrfica en la que se puede encontrar, primeros registros para el estado en 12 especies y nuevas localidades para 2; adems, se hace un anlisis zoogeogrfico de especies; se incluyen 3 cuadros y 1 figura. /// This ecological and zoogeographical list of the continental fishes from the state of Chiapas, southeastern Mxico, summarizes the results from 8 field trips, 174 collections, and more than 60,000 specimens now in the Ichthyological Collection, Facultad de Ciencias Biolgicas, Universidad Autnoma de Nuevo Len, and from the literature. Collected are 101 species, 34 cited only from literature; in total, 131 are known and 4 undescribed, for a grand total of 135 species; they are grouped in 38 families and 72 genera; by zoogeographical origin 72 are continental, 3 nearctic, and 56 neotropical, and, by ecological group, 10 are primary, 54 secondary, 67 peripheral, and only 4 are introduced physiographical distribution, new records for 12 of the species, and new localities for 2, are mentioned, plus a zoogeographical comment; there are 3 tables and 1 figure.
10.2307/3671566|Characteristic dermal scutes of an armadillo (Dasypus cf. D. bellus) collected from alluvial deposits of late Blancan age (about 2.5 million years old) in Antelope County, Nebraska, represent the northernmost known occurrence of the Dasypodidae. Except for two other Blancan records, in Florida, the Nebraska specimens are also the oldest North American evidence of the family. The Big Springs Local Fauna, in which Dasypus comprises a rare element, also contains other vertebrate taxa (Geochelone, Bassariscus, Tapirus) whose modern ranges lie far to the south of Nebraska. A warm paleoclimate is thus suggested; however, enthusiasm for armadillos as paleoecological indicators should be tempered by the recent discovery of D. bellus in the late Pleistocene of southwestern Iowa where it is accompanied by the remains of boreal rodents. The large Pleistocene species may have been more cold-tolerant than its probable Recent descendant, D. novemcinctus.
10.2307/3671567|Acacia janzenii Ebinger and Seigler, an ant-acacia from the states of Chiapas and Tabasco in Mexico, is described, illustrated, and compared to its nearest relative, A. cookii Safford.
10.2307/3671568|Notropis perpallidus, the peppered shiner, occurs over most of its historical range in southern Arkansas and southeastern Oklahoma, but its abundance has declined in certain local areas, especially downstream from reservoirs. Although N. perpallidus is restricted to a small geographic area and its population densities are low, a multivariate analysis of niche breadth showed that, within its geographic range, it is one of the most broadly distributed shiners. Principal components analysis of habitat variables revealed that the peppered shiner occupies microhabitats similar to those of N. snelsoni and N. volucellus--primarily the deeper (> 50 cm), slower-flowing (< 0.3 cm/sec) waters in a given stream segment.
10.2307/3671569|A new species of the land snail family Helminthoglyptidae, Helminthoglypta (Rothelix) rhodophila Reeder & Miller, is described from the Cuyamaca Mountains of Southern California.
10.2307/3671570|Interception of precipitation by grass canopies in annually burned and unburned tallgrass prairie was measured for individual precipitation events from 1983 to 1984. Seasonal patterns of interception closely reflected differences in grass canopy development throughout the growing season in burned but not unburned prairie. Mean interception for the study period was 38 and 19% for unburned and burned prairie, respectively, indicating that throughfall volume in burned prairie was approximately 1.3 times that of unburned prairie on an annual basis. Thus, water availability for plant uptake may be initially higher in burned prairie, especially early in the growing season.
10.2307/3671446|Microhabitat associations of 10 species of small mammals were investigated in 1983 in four vegetation types in southeastern Colorado. Vegetation types included shortgrass prairie and three sub-types of pinyon-juniper forest. Reithrodontomys megalotis, Dipodomys ordii, and Peromyscus truei were identified as microhabitat specialists, and Peromyscus leucopus, Peromyscus maniculatus, Perognathus flavus, and Neotoma (N. albigula and N. micropus) as microhabitat generalists. Further analysis revealed differences in microhabitat use between three species of coexisting Peromyscus. Peromyscus truei occurred in microhabitats with increased canopy cover, decreased herbaceous cover, and decreased tree dispersion as compared to P. leucopus and P. maniculatus. Conversely, P. leucopus occurred in microhabitats with decreased canopy cover, increased herbaceous cover, and increased tree dispersion. Peromyscus maniculatus preferred intermediate microhabitats. Microhabitat breadth of each Peromyscus species was similar, suggesting that the three species were equally opportunistic in exploiting available microhabitat.
10.2307/3671447|Benthic metabolism was measured monthly for 14 months in two Texas prairie streams. Mrs. White's Creek, a second-order stream with an average discharge of 148 1/s, maintained flow for >90% of the study period and has a history of perennial discharge. Squirrel Creek, a third-order stream with an average discharge of 292 1/s, maintained flow for <60% of the period of observation and is annually intermittent. Net primary productivity and respiration of stream substrates were measured as changes in O<sub>2</sub> concentration within sealed chambers. Productivity in the perennial stream ranged from 2.6 to 439.2 mg <tex-math>$\text{O}_{2}\ \text{m}^{-2}\ \text{h}^{-1}$</tex-math> and averaged 130.7 mg <tex-math>$\text{O}_{2}\ \text{m}^{-2}\ \text{h}^{-1}$</tex-math> during the course of the study. Productivity in the intermittent stream ranged from 3.2 to 370.4 mg <tex-math>$\text{O}_{2}\ \text{m}^{-2}\ \text{h}^{-1}$</tex-math> and averaged 108.2 mg <tex-math>$\text{O}_{2}\ \text{m}^{-2}\ \text{h}^{-1}$</tex-math>. There were no significant differences in primary productivity between the two sites. Respiration in the perennial stream ranged from 7.2 to 311.2 mg <tex-math>$\text{O}_{2}\ \text{m}^{-2}\ \text{h}^{-1}$</tex-math> and averaged 102.7 mg <tex-math>$\text{O}_{2}\ \text{m}^{-2}\ \text{h}^{-1}$</tex-math> for the study. Respiration in the intermittent stream was significantly lower than in the perennial stream and ranged from 7.1 to 133.6 mg <tex-math>$\text{O}_{2}\ \text{m}^{-2}\ \text{h}^{-1}$</tex-math> during the course of the study, with an overall average of 47.4 mg <tex-math>$\text{O}_{2}\ \text{m}^{-2}\ \text{h}^{-1}$</tex-math>.
10.2307/3671448|The stingless bee Trigona testacea selectively visited the flowers of Combretum farinosum early in the morning when nectar availability was high but visited flowers nonselectively later in the day as the availability of nectar decreased. Our results suggest that the bees discriminated among flowers with different nectar contents and that their selectivity threshold decreased with diminished resource availability. /// Se describe el comportamiento de forrajeo de un meliponino (Trigona testacea) en las flores de la enredadera Combretum farinosum. Las abejas eran selectivas en las flores escogidas temprano por la maana cuando la disponibilidad de nectar era alta y no selectivas mas tarde cuando la disponibilidad era baja debido al uso. Nuestros resultados sugieren que las abejas podan distinguir entre flores con distintos contenidos de nectar y que su umbral de selectividad decreca al disminuir la disponibilidad de nectar.
10.2307/3671449|The behavior of the tree lizard Urosaurus ornatus was studied in semi-natural outdoor enclosures for nine mornings each in June and July (reproductive season) and September (post-reproductive season) 1984. Surveys every 30 min during the morning provided information on the time, air temperature, and light intensity when the lizards emerged for the day and moved from sun to shade as well as information on their perching heights and locations. Perching locations and movements are discussed in terms of their possible social significance for members of this boulder-inhabiting (saxicolous) population of tree lizards.
10.2307/3671450|Secondary succession occurs among the tree species in the subalpine forest of the Neo-volcanic Range of south-central Mexico. The age and mean trunk diameter for individuals of each species present becomes progressively older and larger away from the edge of a subalpine meadow. Pinus hartwegii (pine) occurs at the edge of the meadow and is prevented from intruding into it by disturbances in the form of grazing, ground fires, and light woodcutting. Alnus firmifolia (alder) occurs upslope from the pine population and replaces it. Above alder and overlapping its distribution on the slope is Abies religiosa (fir), the climax species in the forest community. The successional sequence takes approximately three centruries to complete and appears to be faster than those reported for more northern forests, particularly in the time required for fir to attain dominance. Pine grew better in the open than under pine. Little or no pine regeneration occurred under alder or fir. Fir grew rapidly in the open and under alder but less rapidly under pine and slowly under itself. Light levels diminished through the successional sequence, while pH levels were within the range which does not interfere with the uptake of nutrients, such as nitrogen by plants. Percent total nitrogen was significantly lower under the canopy of fir than in the open or under pine or alder, suggesting that the growth rate of fir saplings and their relative number are limited in part by the availability of nitrogen.
10.2307/3671451|Plasmodium chiricahuae gametocytes which infect the lizard Sceloporus jarrovi were compared from five montane islands in southern Arizona. The biogeography of S. jarrovi in its most northern distribution is clearly that of disjunct populations on montane islands. There were no significant differences in gametocyte size in lizards betwen the islands. Differences in lizards within areas were highly significant. The time (estimated at 8,000-12,000 years) since isolation of this host-parasite system may have been insufficient to demonstrate change in evolutionary patterns. Alternatively, differences in gametocyte size may not be a sensitive enough measure of coevolution.
10.2307/3671452|Subadult and adult fishes from the Gila River drainage in New Mexico and Arizona were tagged, released, and recaptured from April 1983 through May 1985. Numbers of tagged and recaptured fish were dominated by desert mountain sucker, Pantosteus clarki, and Sonora sucker, Catostomus insignis. Fishes were presumed to be sedentary as only two of 53 recaptures were made outside of original release sites. The relatively large habitats and comparatively cool thermal regime of the study area are believed to be the primary reasons for the apparent lack of movement. Growth rates of recaptured fishes were low and indicated that desert mountain and Sonora suckers grow slowly after reaching adult size.
10.2307/3671453|A key is presented for the identification of adult scoliid wasps that occur in the southwestern United States and in northern Mexico, including species in the genera Campsomeris, Scolia, Triscolia, Trielis, and Crioscolia. The distributions and months of flights are included. /// Una clave para la determinacion de las especies de avispas de la familia Scoliidae que ocurren en el sur-oeste de los Estados Unidos y el norte de Mexico esta presentada. Se incluye las distribuciones y periodos de vuelo de los adultos. Los generos tratados son Campsomeris, Scolia, Triscolia, Trielis, y Crioscolia.
10.2307/3671454|Glossophaga soricina, Artibeus jamaicensis, Artibeus lituratus, and Artibeus phaeotis were studied under natural conditions in the "Costa Grande" region of Guerrero, Mexico, and data were gathered on diversity, monthly variation, capture-recapture frequency, and activity patterns of the bat community. The species diversity index was 1.505. Glossophaga soricina was abundant from May through July, Artibeus jamaicensis was abundant in November and December, Artibeus lituratus from September to January, and Artibeus phaeotis in September thru November. In general, large bats (A. jamaicensis and A. lituratus) were recaptured no more than twice, but small ones (G. soricina and A. phaeotis) were recaptured up to three to five times. We recaptured 5.8% of A. jamaicensis, 9.6% of A. lituratus, 11.6% of G. soricina, and 23.4% of A. phaeotis. Animals recaptured on the same night that they were banded constituted 34.5% of the recaptures. Glossophaga soricina and A. phaeotis were recaptured in the same locality where they were banded. The first 5 h after sunset yielded 58.2% of the captures, and the remaining 41.8% was obtained in the following 8 h.
10.2307/3671455|Comparison of Eutamias ochrogenys, Eutamias senex, Eutamias siskiyou, and Eutamias townsendii along the Pacific coast of northwestern California and southwestern Oregon was undertaken to re-evaluate some of the distinguishing characters, to examine the validity of described distributions, and to look for the occurrence of intergrades at the described river boundaries between the species. Discriminant function analyses of 296 specimens showed clear differences in the four species, and the three river boundaries separated them with no discernible intergradation.
10.2307/3671456|A survey was taken of bird losses in crude oil pits near the central Texas Gulf Coast and in northwestern Texas. At one pit near the Texas Coast, 297 bird carcasses (largely ducks) were counted. Duck losses from oil pollution in northwestern Texas occurred largely in playa basins of the Permian Basin south of the Panhandle. To determine the fate of birds that die in oil pits, 40 carcasses of nine bird species were placed in two crude oil pits near the central Texas Coast in October (19) 1981 and December (15) 1981 and April (6) 1982 and studied for 5 months. Rate of sinking and disappearance of carcasses were positively related to carcass size. In a comparison of three seasons, the time required for a carcass to disappear was longer in winter when oil temperatures were lowest and shorter in spring and fall when oil temperatures were highest.
10.2307/3671457|Quaternary insect fossils are readily preserved in packrat middens, although few have been systematically studied. Late Wisconsin and Holocene age middens from the San Andres and Fra Cristobal mountains of New Mexico have yielded insect fossil assemblages for paleoenvironmental analysis. While the fossil insect faunas from individual sites are limited in diversity, a paleoenvironmental scenario is constructed which closely agrees with the interpretations of plant macrofossil records from the region. Late Wisconsin climate in south-central New Mexico was cooler and wetter than present, corresponding to an apparent downward elevational displacement of about 1,000 m. A shift to more xeric conditions occurred in the early Holocene. Desert-grassland gave way to desertscrub in the vicinity by Mid-Holocene, and Late Holocene climatic conditions were perhaps the most severe of the last 100,000 years. /// Insectos fsiles contenidos en depsitos de Neotoma (packrat middens) de edad Tardiglacial (Wisconsin Superior) y Postglacial, han sido estudiados con el objeto de lograr la reconstruccin paleoambiental del centro-sur de New Mexico. El material entomolgico motivo de estudio proviene de distintos sitios muestreados en las sierras de San Andres y Fra Cristobal, New Mexico. Si bien el numero de especies observadas en los depsitos es limitado, los espectros obtenidos permiten su correlacin con previos estudios paleobotnicos en la region. El Pleistoceno Final se habra caracterizado por un clima ms frio y humedo que el actual, correspondiendo a l un desplazamiento altitudinal de la vegetacin de aproximadamente 1,000 m. Condiciones ms xricas habran predominado hacia los inicios del Holoceno, mientras que un matorral desrtico habria reemplazado una pradera desrtica hacia el Holoceno Medio. Las condiciones ambientales que presenta el Holoceno Superior son las ms severas de los ultimos 100,000 aos.
10.2307/3671473|This study presents the first examination of relationships among morphologic variation and diet and the first food habit assessment for collared lizards (Crotaphytus collaris) inhabiting the Pedro Armendariz lava field, New Mexico. Coleoptera, Orthoptera, Hymenoptera, and Aranae formed the major portion of the diet during the two activity seasons studied. The 145 lizards consumed 63 categories of arthropods as well as eight individual lizards of the genera Cnemidophorus and Phrynosoma, one snake (Sonora semiannulata), an unidentified bird nestling, plant tissues, and small pebbles. Analyses revealed that adults and non-adults differed in body size and in size of food items ingested, but the kinds of food did not differ significantly between age classes. Males and females differed morphologically and in the kinds of foods eaten, but the size and numbers of food items were similar among sexes. Variables separating months were probably a reflection of insect phenology. Size and diet differences between sexes may act to reduce intraspecific competition for food resources.
10.2307/3671474|Foraging behavior of Uta stansburiana and Cnemidophorus tigris was studied in two different habitats in the Chihuahuan Desert. One habitat was "natural" Chihuahuan Desert dominated by shrubs. The other habitat had been modified with herbicide and was dominated by sub-shrubs and grasses. Uta stansburiana exhibited no preference for plant species or life forms when foraging in either habitat. Foraging C. tigris preferentially used mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa) and, to a lesser extent, creosotebush (Larrea tridentata) in the natural habitat. In the grass-dominated habitat, C. tigris used bush muhly (Muhlenbergis porteri). Cnemidophorus tigris spend more time foraging under plants with large litter accumulations. Shifts in vegetation from grassland to shrubland appear to favor C. tigris.
10.2307/3671475|Critical thermal maximum (CTM) was determined for samples of redbelly dace, Phoxinus erythrogaster, on each of six collection dates between July 1981 and June 1982 to examine the effect of thermal acclimatization on temperature tolerance. Body weight and length were measured to discover if a relationship exists between these variables and CTM in P. erythrogaster. A statistical difference between CTMs for the six capture dates was found, indicating that acclimatization is a factor in the thermal tolerance of these fish. A relationship was found between CTM and ambient temperature. No evidence was found to indicate that a relationship exists between CTM and body size in this species.
10.2307/3671476|The stippled darter, Etheostoma punctulatum, was studied from February 1981 to May 1982 in Flint Creek, Delaware Co., Oklahoma. Etheostoma punctulatum was captured in riffles and pools, and 68% were caught in or near vegetation or detritus. Etheostoma punctulatum was captured in slower water more often than predicted from the habitat available, but depths and substrates were used in proportion to availability. The stippled darter lives to a maximum of 3 years in Flint Creek, and females are larger than males. Ephemeropteran naiads and chironomid larvae are eaten most frequently and found in proportionally more stomachs. Etheostoma punctulatum spawns from late winter to early spring, and females had an average of 78.3 (SD = 21.75) mature oocytes per g total weight.
10.2307/3671477|Diets of two desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus crooki) herds in Big Bend National Park, Texas, were determined and compared in 1980 and 1981 using the microhistologic method of fecal analysis. Seasonal diets were similar between the two herds. Generally, browse use decreased from spring to winter with a corresponding increase in forb use. Use of succulents was greatest during dry seasons. The herds differed in the use of available plant species. Deer in the more xeric region consumed evergreen browse species during periods of low rainfall and relied less upon forbs. Deer in the more mesic foothills also had lower forb consumption during drought periods; however, forb use was greater when contrasted with use in the xeric location.
10.2307/3671478|Food habits of the bobcat (Felis rufus) in two habitats of the Mapimi Biosphere Reserve, Mexico, were studied by the analysis of 540 scats and related to prey numbers. Jackrabbits (Lepus californicus) and woodrats (Neotoma albigula) were the main prey; mammals as a whole constituted 98% of the total occurrences. Bobcats living on the hills ate significantly more woodrats and less lagomorphs than those living on the plain, where woodrats are scarce. On the plain, diets varied little from autumn to spring. /// Los hbitos alimenticios del gato monts (Felis rufus) en dos hbitats de la Reserva de la Biosfera de Mapim, Mxico, han sido estudiados mediante el anlisis de 540 excrementos, y han sido relacionados con la abundancia de presas. Las liebres de cola prieta (Lepus californicus) y las ratas nopaleras (Neotoma albigula) fueron las principales presas. En conjunto, los mamferos constituyen el 98% de las presas aparecidas en los excrementos. Los gatos monteses que viven en los cerros consumen significativamente ms ratas nopaleras y menos liebres que los que viven en las playas. La dieta en la playa vara poco estacionalmente.
10.2307/3671479|Galls of Xanthoteras sp. were sampled on the leaves of shinnery oak at the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant construction site near Carlsbad, New Mexico, in September and October 1985. Comparisons among three plots showed significant differences in numbers of leaves galled and total galls present. The pattern of gall abundances paralleled the pattern of soil salt levels at these plots. Levels of leaf herbivory at the same plots exhibited an inverse pattern relative to gall abundances. The potential relationships between gall abundance, salt levels, and plant stress are discussed.
10.2307/3671480|A greenhouse study was conducted to determine light requirements of Prosopis glandulosa Torr. (mesquite) seedlings. Maximum growth occurred in the highest light intensity tested. Number of leaves, stem length, basal diameter, and above-ground, below-ground, and total dry weight increased as light intensity increased. These parameters except number of leaves and stem length were linearly correlated with light intensity. The root:shoot ratio increased with decreased light intensity in a nonlinear fashion. Prosopis glandulosa appears to be a pioneer species and a heliophyte. However, the lack of P. glandulosa seedlings under P. glandulosa canopies is not sufficiently explained by lower growth rates at reduced light intensities beneath adult tree canopies. Additional factors such as differential herbivory, nutrient requirements, or competition are apparently necessary to more completely explain the lack of seedlings.
10.2307/3671481|Rubber rabbitbrush (Chrysothamnus nauseosus and other related species of Chrysothamnus, comprise a large and diverse group of plants that are well adapted to many different habitats of the western desert regions of North America. It has been known for some time that these plants produce natural rubber, and interest is increasing in possible commercialization of these plants for rubber and other important natural products. This investigation surveyed 31 populations of rubber rabbitbrush for crude resin and rubber production. The highest production of resin (35.89%) was found in an accession of C. nauseosus subsp. consimilis, and highest rubber production (6.67%) was found in an accession of C. nauseosus subsp. turbinatus. High rubber production did not correlate with high resin production. Considerable variation was found among samples of the same subspecies collected from different geographical sites. Resins and rubber extracted from fresh tissue verses over-dried tissue did not yield significant differences.
10.2307/3671482|Se describe una especie nueva, Berberis albicans, del centro de Mxico. Se trata de un arbusto glauco y espinoso con algunos rasgos xeromrficos, cuyas inflorescencias en tirsos cortos lo apartan del esquema sistemtico hasta ahora conocido. En tal virtud se propone una seccin nueva dentro del subgnero Mahonia. /// Berberis albicans, a new species, is described from central Mexico. It is a glaucous and spiny shrub with some xeromorphic features. It has an inflorescence of short thyrses that set it apart from other species in the genus. Because of the nature of the inflorescence, a new section is proposed with the subgenus Mahonia.
10.2307/3671483|A survey of arthropods associated with nonblooming and blooming Agave palmeri Engelmann revealed that distinct herbivore groups colonize four habitats within the plant in a successional pattern. The leaves of nonblooming A. palmeri were colonized by seven species of leaf feeders. Upon blooming, leaves dried up as their energy stores were shunted to the plants' large inflorescence, and leaves became free of herbivores. A possible breakdown of defensive compounds in the bole of the plant was correlated with blooming. Sixteen species of herbivores and detritivores colonized the boles of blooming plants. The stalk of A. palmeri was colonized by four stem boring insects and the inflorescence by other species of herbivores. There was little spatial overlap between species colonizing different portions of the plant. The physiological and morphological complexities of A. palmeri appear to be the mechanisms influencing the diversity and structure of its associated herbivore community. All animals reported to be associated with A. palmeri are listed.
10.2307/3671484|More than 2,000 living and dried collections of the 12 species of ant-acacias occurring in Mexico and Central America were tested for the presence of cyanogenic compounds. Most do not have cyanogenic glycosides although three species appear to have a duplicate defense system of myrmecophyly and cyanogenesis. One of these, Acacia chiapensis Safford, has been suggested to be a marginal host for obligate species of ants and, in many features of growth and habit, resembles non-ant-acacias. Populations of Acacia globulifera Safford and Acacia hindsii Benth. vary in the presence of cyanogenic compounds. Approximately one third of the specimens of A. globulifera tested lacked the enzyme necessary to hydrolyze cyanogenic glycosides. About one third of the specimens of A. hindsii possessed cyanogenic compounds. The presence of a mutualistic relationship with ants in these three species does not appear to have greatly reduced their dependence on chemical defenses.
10.2307/3672082|We examined G- and C-banded karyotypes of five species of Geomys (G. tropicalis, G. pinetis, G. personatus, G. breviceps, G. bursarius) and three cytotypes of G. bursarius (G. b. lutescens, G. b. major, and G. b. knoxjonesi). Our results indicate extensive euchromatic and heterochromatic variation in this genus, in excess of what was predicted by nondifferentially-stained karyotypes. All the taxa of Geomys examined had heterochromatin on numerous chromosomes, in addition to the usual pericentric heterochromatin observed in mammals. Although the quality of our G-bands did not permit elucidation of all euchromatic changes, it is clear from the data that euchromatic rearrangements in this genus were extensive and included both Robertsonian and non-Robertsonian rearrangements.
10.2307/3672083|The frequency and severity of cranial damage attributable to frontal sinus nematodes of the genus Skrjabingylus are reported for four species of skunks from Mexico. Examination of cleaned and dried crania of 67 striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis), 152 hooded skunks (Mephitis macroura), 142 spotted skunks (Spilogale putorius), and nine pygmy spotted skunks (Spilogale pygmaea) revealed that skrjabingylosis is common in skunks in Mexico, with frequencies of cranial lesions ranging from 22.2% in S. pygmaea to 84.9% in S. putorius. The frequency and severity of cranial lesions tended to increase with age in M. mephitis, M. macroura, and S. putorius. Among adults of these three species, there was no difference between the sexes in the frequency of cranial damage. Lesions were significantly more severe in M. macroura than in M. mephitis and S. putorius. Among these three species, only M. macroura evinced a significant correlation between the severity of cranial damage and annual precipitation. The results for this sample from Mexico are compared with those previously reported for skunks from the United States and Canada.
10.2307/3672084|Se analiza el papel que juega el injerto (Phoradendron villosum y Phoradendron bolleanum) en la dieta del venado cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus couesi), considerando la disponibilidad de dicho recurso alimenticio en el habitat, determinando as su preferencia. El injerto constituye alrededor del 20% de la dieta del venado a lo largo del ao, siendo este consumo constante en las diferentes pocas. La estimacin de la biomasa de las dos especies de injerto es de 48.87 kg/ha de P. villosum y 21.25 kg/ha de P. bolleanum, aunque lo que se puede considerar disponible para el venado es del 49% y 14% de la biomasa estimada respectivamente, y representa nicamente el 4.3% de la biomasa total de forraje disponible o cosecha en pie. El ndice de Preferencia indica que el venado prefiere estas plantas, y las busca como recurso alimenticio porque le reditan un alto valor energtico dadas sus caractersticas de digestibilidad y contenido de nutrientes. /// The role of the mistletoes (Phoradendron villosum and Phoradendron bolleanum) in the diet of the white-tailed deer is analyzed, considering the resource availability in the habitat. The food habits of white-tailed deer indicate that mistletoe constitutes 20% of the annual diet with no important seasonal changes. The biomass estimation was 48.87 kg/ha for P. villosum and 21.25 kg/ha for P. bolleanum, but only 49% and 14% of this biomass is really available for the deer. Although the mistletoe biomass represents only 4.3% of the total standing crop, the preference index reveals that white-tailed deer actively search for this resource. The reason is that the energetic value of the mistletoes is probably high due to their digestibility and nutritional quality.
10.2307/3672085|The reproductive cycle of the plains minnow, Hybognathus placitus, in the Cimarron River, northcentral Oklahoma, is described. Reproducing females were collected from late April to July 1979; ovarian weights, expressed as a percentage of body weights, peaked in June. Females first spawned during their second summer of life; the smallest producing female was 48 mm in standard length. Mature ova were 0.85 to 1.30 mm in diameter. Analysis of length frequency distributions suggested multiple peaks in spawning activity which apparently coincided with high water conditions.
10.2307/3672086|Paspalum plicatulum Michx. (brownseed paspalum) seeds are dormant for several months after maturity. This study was conducted to determine causes of dormancy in seeds harvested from two locations in southern Texas (DeWitt and Hidalgo counties). Seeds were 1) nicked with a razor blade, 2) moist prechilled at 7C for 30 days, 3) germinated on substrata moistened with a 0.3 mmol/l solution of gibberellic acid, 4) soaked in 17 M sulfuric acid for 20 min, and 5) treated with combinations of moist prechilling and nicking or sulfuric acid scarification. Moist prechilling at 7C for 30 days increased germination from 22 to 66% for DeWitt seeds, but nicking did not increase percent and rate of germination. Nicked Hidalgo seeds had 26% germination compared to 6% for controls. Gibberellic acid increased percentages and rates of nicked seeds of both sources. Dormancy in P. plicatulum seeds apparently results from physiological mechanisms and mechanical or permeability restrictions imposed by the lemma and palea.
10.2307/3672087|The Kansas Fish and Game Commission stocked threadfin shad, Dorosoma petenense, in Lake Reading, Kansas, each spring from 1980 through 1983 as added forage for game fishes. In addition, gizzard shad, Dorosoma cepedianum, were accidently released in October 1980, during other stocking operations by state fisheries personnel. Following the additions of these two planktivores, the duration of the calanoid season was markedly reduced, and the average standing crops for Diaptomus siciloides and Diaptomus pallidus were reduced to 50% or less than standing crops before the release of shad. Diaptomus pallidus replaced D. siciloides as the most dominant species. The establishment of a gizzard shad population in the lake has apparently kept standing crops low even though threadfin shad are no longer present.
10.2307/3672088|Based on recoveries with CO<sub>2</sub>-baited traps on the Welder Wildlife Foundation Refuge near Sinton, Texas, Gulf Coast ticks (Amblyomma maculatum Koch) were most active in late summer and early fall. Greater numbers of Gulf Coast ticks were trapped from mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa)-mixedgrass communities than from bunchgrass-annual forb or mesquite-bristlegrass (Setaria sp.) communities. Fewest ticks were trapped from chaparral-mixedgrass communities. Percentage mortality of ticks varied little among burns in late October 1979, late January 1979, and mid-February 1980. More than 75% of the ticks were killed, regardless of plant community, when the temperature maximum in the fire front was 330C and 60% of the fine (herbaceous) fuel was consumed. Field-derived temperature thresholds for mortality were substantiated by temperature-time curves developed under laboratory conditions. Exposure to 150 to 165C for 15 s killed all ticks, and mortality exceeded 90% when ticks were exposed to 90 to 125C for at least 30 s. Regardless of plant community, Gulf Coast tick populations were reduced for the first postburn growing season relative to unburned areas. However, there was no difference in numbers on burned and unburned mesquite-bristlegrass and chaparral-mixedgrass in 1980 after burns in January 1979.
10.2307/3672089|Vegetation cover and buried seeds were studied on three upland sites burned at different intervals (unburned, 4-year burn, and annual burn) in tallgrass prairie in northeastern Kansas. Vegetation of all sites (89 species total) was dominated by Andropogon gerardii (76 to 81% cover). Schizachyrium scoparium and Sorghastrum nutans cover was higher, whereas Poa pratensis and Sporobolus heterolepis cover was lower on more frequently than on less frequently burned sites. A total of 735 seedlings comprising 28 species were recorded in soil samples from the three treatments. Seed density was variable within and between treatments but was generally highest in unburned and lowest in annually burned prairie. Many Sporobolus cryptandrus were recorded in each treatment, whereas P. pratensis averaged 35 seedlings in the unburned and 1 in the annual burn treatment. The number of forb seedlings was not significantly different between treatments and was dominated by Erigeron strigosus and Oxalis stricta. Many species that germinated from buried seeds were not recorded as vegetation on the site, and much of the vegetation was not represented as seedlings. The scarcity of viable buried seeds of the dominant tallgrasses and forbs suggest that they are highly dependent on vegetative propagation.
10.2307/3672090|The name Eriogonum densum Greene, as presently applied, refers to one of the rarest species in New Mexico. It is known from only two collections consisting of 16 plants. The name also has been applied in a much broader sense to plants that are now included in the common Eriogonum palmerianum Reveal in Munz, a species somewhat similar in habit but differing in shape of tepals and involucre. History of E. densum is reviewed. Multivariate statistics indicate that E. densum is closely allied to the widespread annual Eriogonum polycladon Benth., the former differing by its smaller flower size and increased number of branches. Dimunitive plants of E. polycladon most closely approach E. densum, but seed from these plants produce tall, "normal" plants when grown in the greenhouse. A discussion is presented suggesting that E. densum is a rare, environmentally induced phase of E. polycladon.
10.2307/3672091|A new species of land snail, Sonorella cananea, is described from the vicinity of Cananea, Sonora, Mexico. It is characterized by an unusually hairy shell for the genus and a short, dimpled verge. It is related to Sonorella sitiens sitiens Pilsbry and Ferriss, 1915, and S. sitiens montezuma Pilsbry and Ferris, 1919, by its short verge and to Sonorella magdalenensis (Stearns, 1890) by its vaginal collar. /// Una nueva especie de caracol terrestre, de las inmediaciones de Cananea, Sonora, Mxico, Sonorella cananea, es descrita. Se caracteriza por una concha vellosa, inslito para el gnero, y por una pequea verga con hoyuelos. Se relaciona con Sonorella sitiens sitiens Pilsbry y Ferris, 1915, y S. sitiens montezuma Pilsbry y Ferris, 1919, en la pequea verga y con Sonorella magdalenensis (Stearns, 1890) en el collar vaginal.
10.2307/3672092|An analysis of various karyotypic features is presented for the following Mexican species: Datura discolor, Datura inoxia, Datura lanosa, Datura stramonium, and Datura wrightii. The following factors are reported, and their evolutionary significance are discussed: somatic chromosome number (2n = 24), major chromosome arm number (fn = 24), base chromosome number ( = 12), total chromatin length, presence of secondary constrictions or satellites, and index of asymetry of karyotypes (T.F. %). /// Se presenta el anlisis cariotpico para las siguientes especies mexicanas: Datura discolor, Datura inoxia, Datura lanosa, Datura stramonium, y Datura wrightii. Se reportan las siguientes caractersticas discutindose su importancia evolutiva: nmero cromosmico somatico (2n = 24); nmero fundamental (fn = 24); nmero bsico ( = 12); longitud total de la cromatina; presencia de constricciones secundarias o satelites e ndice de asimetra de los cariotipos (T.F.%).
10.2307/3672093|Age structures of populations of Spermophilus mollis at two ecologically distinct localities in Utah were estimated by histological examination of mandibular adhesion lines. These age distributions were used to construct age-specific survivorship and fecundity schedules. There were signficant locality differences in age structure and fecundity. At the mesic site, the yearling age class was larger, and average litter size was greater for all age groups. Survivorship was similar at both localities. Compared to other ground squirrels, S. mollis has high fecundity and low adult survivorship and is short-lived. Maximum longevity may be influenced by diet.
10.2307/3671887|Selected attributes of the breeding birds of Texas within 200 km of the International Border, plus natural landscape, climatic, and cultural factors, were submitted to principal components analysis (PCA). Avian-natural factor and avian-cultural-impact syntheses were distinguished. Major natural and potential human determinants of biotic pattern were extracted from multivariate analyses. Clusters in the ordinations of samples on PCA graphs were verified by multivariate analysis of variance of environmental variables. Statistically distinct clusters are considered biotic provinces. Three occur in the Texas border region. They are natural divisions in a neotemperate toward neotropical continuum of passerine dominance linked to landscape diversity (west) versus nonpasserine dominance tied to productivity (east). Major human impact areas (El Paso Co. and Cameron-Hidalgo-Nueces counties) are recognized by employing symbols complementary to the biogeographic pattern. Only one map is necessary to display the natural environment and its potential modifications by man.
10.2307/3671888|Clark Creek, the southernmost westward flowing tributary to the Mississippi River, was surveyed monthly from December 1977 to October 1978 and on a limited basis since that time. A total of 28 species from the drainage has been recorded. Three of these species records (Phoxinus erythrogaster, Campostoma anomalum, Etheostoma histrio) represent significant range extensions. Four intergeneric cyprinid hybrids (Campostoma anomalum  Phoxinus erythrogaster, Campostoma anomalum  Nocomis leptocephalus, Phoxinus erythrogaster  Semotilus atromaculatus, Campostoma anomalum  Notropis chrysocephalus) were also taken. The seasonal distribution and size range of the hybrids indicated a higher frequency of hybridization than normally anticipated in undisturbed habitats. Low flow, similar reproductive behavior patterns, and paucity of nesting sites were undoubtedly contributing factors to the high occurrence of hybrids from Clark Creek. Electrophoretic analyses of 22 gene loci from parental types from Clark Creek and adjacent populations revealed no evidence of introgression among the five species found in hybrid combinations.
10.2307/3671889|Reproduction in the weed shiner from the Choctawhatchee River drainage in Alabama and Florida and the Sabine River drainage in Texas is described and compared. In the Choctawhatchee River drainage, spawning occurred from February to September or early October, but most females were reproductive from March to August or September. When compared to females from this drainage, males matured at about the same or somewhat smaller size. However, both sexes matured at larger sizes than fish from the Sabine River drainage. Females from the Choctawhatchee River drainage produced fewer but larger mature ova. Our data are consistent with the hypothesis that, among fishes of the Gulf Coastal Plain, increased egg diameter and decreased clutch size are associated with increased mean annual runoff of surface water in the drainages. Size at sexual maturity may be positively correlated with runoff among populations of fishes in this region.
10.2307/3671890|Sexual segregation in desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus crooki) was studied in the Picacho Mountains, Arizona, from 1 May 1984 to 30 April 1985. Adult males used the creosote-mesquite (Larrea tridentata-Prosopis juliflora) flats surrounding the Picacho Mountains except during rut. Females exclusively used habitats in the Picacho Mountains. Adult males and females were found together primarily during rut from mid-December to February in the Picacho Mountains. Two radio-collared yearling males dispersed from the Picacho Mountains during summer months. One yearling used habitats of females during early summer, late summer, and winter but used habitats typical of adult males during spring.
10.2307/3671891|La flora del Lago de Ptzcuaro, Michoacn, Mxico, constituida por 34 gneros, 48 especies pertenecientes a 22 familias de plantas vasculares es notable por su riqueza en comparacin con otros sistemas acuticos mexicanos. Se distinguen las afinidades florsticas de los taxa presentes y se examinan someramente sus asociaciones bajo 4 grandes unidades de vegetacin, cartografiadas en un mapa. /// The flora of Lake Patzcuaro, Michoacan, Mexico, has 48 species in 22 families of vascular plants. In comparison with other aquatic systems of Mexico, this one is especially rich in species. The floristic affinities of the taxa are presented. Four major vegetation associations are described and a map with their distributions is provided.
10.2307/3671892|The size composition of the invertebrate drift in a warm-water Texas stream was determined seasonally and over diel cycles to examine the possibility that larger forms were more prone to night drift than smaller forms. Comparisons of mean head capsule width between day and night drifters yielded equivocal results. For only one taxon was the mean head capsule width greater for night than day drifters (Chironomidae larvae in February). Examination of the size composition of the invertebrates recovered from the stomachs of the major fish species in the stream also showed little difference between day and night. Thus, on a taxon-specific basis, there was little correlation between size of organism and propensity for night drift for the invertebrates in this warm-water stream. This lack of a diel change in size composition of the stream drift may have resulted from a lack of size-selective predation by centrarchid sunfish. The use of Ivlev's Electivity Index indicated no trends toward larger prey eaten by fish at night.
10.2307/3671893|Waterfowl carcass surveys were conducted at 15 lakes on the Southern High Plains of Texas during the winter of 1985-1986 to obtain information on the extent and causes of waterfowl mortality. Carcasses and moribund waterfowl were collected during shoreline censuses and necropsied. One hundred forty-four waterfowl, representing eight species, were collected. Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) accounted for 45% of the total, followed by American wigeons (Anas americana; 22%), green-winged teals (Anas crecca; 20%), and northern pintails (Anas acuta; 7%). Sex class comparisons were made for the four species most-collected. Significantly more males were collected than would be expected with a 50:50 ratio. Within species, sex class was significant in two of four comparisons (mallards and wigeons). Age class comparisons were performed on three species. Significantly more adults were collected than would be expected with a 50:50 ratio. Within species, age was significant in one of three comparisons (mallards). However, similar sex and age ratios were obtained from ducks live-trapped, suggesting that mortality in our sample was not age or sex specific. Results from 21 necropsied birds indicated that most of the non-hunting mortality was attributable to avian cholera (10 of 12 cases), low-level mortalities from avian cholera can occur without causing a major epizootic, and mild weather does not necessarily preclude the possibility of an avian cholera epizootic. Overall, non-hunting mortality due to disease appears to be highly variable and during the winter of 1985-1986, on at least 15 playas on the Southern High Plains, disease was not an important mortality factor in waterfowl.
10.2307/3671894|Larvae of Colorado squawfish (Ptychocheilus lucius) acclimated to 22C were subjected to water temperature decreases of 5, 10, or 15C within 5 min or within 240 to 300 min. Most mortality due to shock occurred in the first 48 h. The 15C shock in 5 min caused significant mortality of 14-day-old larvae but did not affect 40-day-olds. In addition to causing this direct mortality, shocks of 10 or 15C in 5 min caused behavioral changes in 14-day-olds that could result in indirect mortality of wild fish.
10.2307/3671895|Heterelmis comalensis new species is described from Comal Springs, one of the headwaters of the Comal River, in New Braunfels, Texas. It is apparently endemic, hind wings brachypterous, and smaller in size than any other species known from the United States (1.7 to 2.1 mm in length, 0.8 to 0.91 mm in breadth). It is closest to Heterelmis glabra (Horn) from which it differs in body contour and in size, H. glabra being 1.9 to 2.35 mm long and 1.0 to 1.17 mm wide.
10.2307/3671896|Xylem resin monoterpenes were assessed in 91 to 100 trees each in five widely separated stands of Pinus monophylla in California and Nevada. The major components were -pinene, 3-carene, sabinene, myrcene, and limonene. Average percents were fairly similar to those previously reported, but individual tree variation was much greater. Based on types of composition, associations (r) between stands ranged from 0.1 to 0.6. Stands that are nearly identical in average composition of individual components can have a relatively low association when analyzed on the basis of frequency of monoterpene types. Similarities with geographically adjoining pinyons, Pinus edulis and Pinus quadrifolia, were not as strong as expected for certain components.
10.2307/3671897|Diets of the four small-sized web-building spiders Dictyna segregata Gertsch and Mulaik, Theridion australe Banks, Tidarren haemorrhoidale (Bertkau), and Frontinella pyramitela (Walckenaer) were studied in an unsprayed cotton agroecosystem in eastern Texas by analyzing prey found in these spiders' webs. Aphids were the most dominant food category in the potential prey complex (D-Vac samples) as well as in the actual prey (insects found in webs) of the four spider species. Since these spiders captured mainly small insects with a size of <3mm, they can be considered to be potential predators of the cotton fleahopper.
10.2307/3671898|Available nectar and nectar-foraging profits for individuals and colonies of Bombus appositus were measured during late July and August of 1982 near Crested Butte, Colorado. Available nectar was highest in July and early in the mornings and declined both seasonally and diurnally. Over the same period, nectar load weights did not change, but durations of B. appositus foraging trips increased seasonally and diurnally, resulting in lower individual foraging profits. Total colony profits increased with increasing colony size, but profit relative to colony size decreased later in the study period, due to lower individual forager profits. Thus, patterns in bumblebee nectar-foraging profits mirrored temporal patterns in nectar availability.
10.2307/3671754|Data for wild house mice (Mus musculus) were analyzed to test the Trivers-Willard hypothesis of facultative sex-ratio adjustment as an adaptive response to stress (Trivers and Willard, 1973). Females were nutritionally deprived during the nursing period. Litters were examined for changes in secondary sex ratios and weight of offspring. Although 40% litter reduction occurred in food-restricted groups, sex ratios among offspring did not change significantly. Males grew faster than females in the food-restricted group. The results do not conform to predictions of the Trivers-Willard hypothesis and are discussed in light of the biology of M. musculus and current theory on adaptive control of progeny sex ratios in vertebrates.
10.2307/3671755|Fossils of a species of palaeoniscoid fish collected in the Maybelle dolostone Member of the Lower Permian Lueders Formation at the Lake Kemp Dam, Baylor Co., Texas, are described and tentatively referred to Lawnia taylorensis Wilson. Several associated dermal skull bones may belong to the giant palaeoniscoid, Luederia kempi Schaeffer and Dalquest, and a small bone resembles the presumed acanthodian girdle element figured by Fritsch in 1893 from Bohemia. A synopsis of the seven species of palaeoniscoids known from Texas is included.
10.2307/3671756|Baccharis sarothroides Gray was studied near Portal, Cochise Co., Arizona, during May and June 1981. Plants bore wounds that were probably produced by insects and were heavily visited by a variety of other insects, predominantly parasitic wasps of the families Braconidae and Chalcididae whose hosts are wood-boring beetles. Visitation patterns were similar from plant to plant and day to day. Visitors competed for feeding sites with a variety of behaviors and in a complicated pattern of dominance. Although the plant loses moisture and nutrients, it is possible that the relationship with visitors is mutualistic if visitor activity intimidates herbivores or parasitoids oviposit on Baccharis herbivores. The wounds would thus function in a manner analogous to extrafloral nectaries. Similar patterns of feeding were seen on Baccharis glutinosa Pers., and faunas of visitors were comparable between both Baccharis species and that of Koeberlinia spinosa Zucc.
10.2307/3671757|The desccation-tolerant pteridophyte Selaginella lepidophylla occurs only in xeric, low-elevation communities in Big Bend National Park (BBNP), whereas most other desiccation-tolerant pteridophytes in the park occur in more mesic, high-elevation communities. Two transplant populations of S. lepidophylla were established for a 2-year period at 1,100 and 1,700 m in BBNP to examine the effects of high-elevation exposure. High-elevation transplantation caused significant reductions in both photosynthetic biomass per plant and photosynthetic capacity relative to low-elevation (700 m) control plants. High-elevation exposure significantly influenced enzyme dynamics and membrane disruption, in ways not obviously related to photosynthetic differences. It did not, however, inhibit protein synthesis capacity. These results indicate that high-elevation transplantation is harmful to sporophytes of S. lepidophylla and that photosynthetic dysfunction may help to exclude this species from high-elevation BBNP environments.
10.2307/3671758|Intraspecific variation in morphologic characters of the raccoon (Procyon lotor) was investigated using univariate and multivariate statistical analyses. Of 22 cranial characters assessed, all showed significant interlocality variation for males and females. A matrix of correlation among characters was computed, and the first three principal components were extracted. These accounted for 89.1% and 89.7% of the total phenetic variance in the character sets of males and females, respectively. Most character variation was associated with principal component I (a body size index). Three-dimensional projections of localities onto the first three principal components revealed an east-west (longitudinal) pattern of size gradation as well as a latitudinal gradient in size for both sexes; largest raccoons were found in the northwestern United States (Oregon, Washington, Idaho) and smallest in the southeastern United States (Florida Keys). In general, larger raccoons (for both sexes) inhabited areas characterized by high seasonality and low primary productivity; smaller raccoons inhabited areas characterized by the opposite conditions. Results of this study indicated that patterns of size variation for P. lotor depended upon the geographic area sampled.
10.2307/3671759|Eight sandstones in four biotic communities of the Colorado Plateau were found to harbor endolithic algae, both chasmo- and cryptoendoliths. Rock-dwelling photosynthetic microorganisms were found in sandstones ranging from white to red and fine to coarsely grained and of varying geologic age. The sandstones all provide adequate light intensity, moisture, and airspace for algal colonization. Conversely, each formation presents a unique set of internal conditions influencing community composition and location. Cryptoendolithic communities shifted from primarily coccoid cyanophytes to coccoid/sarcinoid chlorophytes as the aboveground vegetation changed from cold temperate desertscrub to cold temperate forest. Accompanying this shift was an increase in chlorophyll a content. The sandstone chlorophyll contents found in this study suggest that the endolithic algal community can contribute appreciable plant biomass to communities with sparse aboveground vegetation.
10.2307/3671760|Breakdown rates for pecan, box elder, and Shumard oak were measured at three sites each in intermittent and perennial Texas prairie streams. Sites were located in second, third, and fourth order streams draining watersheds ranging from 9 to 112 ha. Three to 6 g DW of leaf litter were inserted in polypropylene mesh bags (0.5 by 1.5 cm openings) and placed in the stream channels after the onset of leaf fall, but prior to the resumption of flow in the intermittent streams. Ranges of breakdown rates in intermittent streams were 0.004/d to 0.009/d for pecan, 0.012/d to 0.017/d for box elder, and 0.006/d to 0.007/d for oak. Ranges of breakdown rates in perennial streams were 0.008/d to 0.045/d for pecan, 0.018/d to 0.032/d for box elder, and 0.006/d to 0.013/d for oak. Inclusion of degree days improved the breakdown model an average of 12% in the intermittent streams and 19% in the perennial streams. With the exception of the second order streams, breakdown rates were significantly faster in the perennial streams. With the exception of the second order streams, breakdown rates were significantly faster in the perennial streams. Breakdown rates in the perennial streams increased with stream order. The lack of a downstream increase in breakdown rates in the intermittent streams suggests that recolonization by the decomposer community following channel desiccation and resumption of discharge may not have occurred rapidly.
10.2307/3671761|Prescribed winter burns were conducted on the Welder Wildlife Foundation Refuge in southern Texas to determine forb and grass response. Burns were conducted in December 1981 (early winter, immediately after first frost), January (mid-winter) 1982, and February 1982 (late winter), which represent the normal time span of management burning in the Texas Coastal Prairie. Forb yield was highest on areas burned in early winter and decreased on each consecutive burn date. Conversely, grass yield was lowest on early winter burns and increased on each consecutive burn date. Twenty-two percent of all forb species increased in frequency on burned areas regardless of burn date.
10.2307/3671762|Heart rates were positively correlated with sequential phases of increasing defensiveness. Heart rate was used as a dependent measure of effects of conspecific odors from cloacal sacs on defensiveness. Individuals exposed to odors from alarmed, sham-operated conspecifics (i.e., with intact cloacal sacs) exhibited increased heart rates when subsequently presented with a threatening stimulus. In contrast, heart rates of subjects exposed to a control odor, or to odors of alarmed conspecifics with their cloacal sacs surgically removed, remained near normal. Hence, an alarm pheromone may be released from cloacal sacs of defensively aroused prairie rattlesnakes.
10.2307/3671763|The influence of thermoregulation on patterns of resource use was examined for different age classes of Yarrow's spiny lizard, Sceloporus jarrovi, in the Chiricahua Mountains of southeastern Arizona. Significant differences were observed between juvenile and adult body temperatures and body-air temperature differences. Adult body temperatures were higher, and adult body-air temperature differences were greater than those seen in juveniles. Further analyses indicated that, while body temperatures, body-air temperature differences, shuttle movements between light conditions, and time spent in light conditions for both age classes were significantly affected by light condition, only those for adults were influenced by the interaction of light condition and time of day. Adults active in the afternoon spent most of the time in shade, had body temperatures lower than at any other part of the day, and may have a problem cooling following exposure to sunlight. This may explain why adults are active primarily in the morning and juveniles are active throughout the day.
10.2307/3672206|Additional specimens of the extinct leporid Aztlanolagus agilis extend the geographic range of this taxon to Arizona and central Texas. The temporal record is extended back to 2.5 million years ago. Differences in size, enamel complexity, and geologic age suggest two species distinct from A. agilis may be represented. Aztlanolagus agilis is most closely related to Nekrolagus, known from the Blancan of western and central United States. These two taxa were part of the major leporid radiation in North America during the Blancan.
10.2307/3672207|Data from G-banded chromosomes are used to examine the relationships of Nyctomys sumichrasti and Xenomys nelsoni to rodents of the neotomine-peromyscine group. Nyctomys (2n = 52) has a G-banded karyotype essentially like that of Neotoma micropus. Chromosomal characters shared between Nyctomys and Neotoma are most likely the result of conserved primitive chromosomal arrangements. Nyctomys appears to have been derived early from the neotomine-peromyscine line after that line diverged from the South American cricetines. Xenomys nelsoni (2n = 48) possesses a G-banded karyotype that includes a biarmed chromosome 1 and is much like the karyotypes found in species of Onychomys and Peromyscus. If the biarmed condition of chromosome 1 is a synapomorphy for Onychomys and Peromyscus as has been proposed, then Xenomys should be included in this group rather than with Neotoma. However, the evolution of chromosome 1 is not clear, and the biarmed condition may be either primitive or due to convergence. /// Estudios de los cromosomas de Nyctomys sumichrasti y Xenomys nelsoni son usados para examinar las relacciones entre las dos especies y los miembros del grupo neotomine-peromyscine. El caryotipo de Nyctomys (2n = 52) es semejante al de Neotoma micropus, mientras el caryotipo de Xenomys (2n = 48) es similar a los de especies de los generos Peromyscus y Onychomys. Con estos datos, algunas conclusiones se pueden derivar. Primero, la similitud entre los caryotipos de Nyctomys y Neotoma sugiere una relacion cercana entre los dos generos, pero tambien es posible que la similaridad de los caryotipos sea resultado de caracteristicas primitivas retenidas. Ademas, se considera que Nyctomys representa un linaje antiguo que fue derivado antes de el grupo neotomine-peromyscine y despues de los cricetine de America del Sur. Por otro lado, la similidad entre los caryotipos de Xenomys, Onychomys, y Peromyscus (especialamente respecto al cromosoma 1) indica posiblemente una relacion cercana entre estos tres generos, parece que fueron derivados de un antecesor comun. Sin embargo, es posible que estas caracteristicas sean primitivas o convergentes, y por ahora es dificil decidir entre las conclusiones propuestas.
10.2307/3672208|Contrary to the common occurrence of hybrid progeny with characteristics intermediate to parental species, recent studies have shown maternal or paternal dominance of specific traits in some hybrids. This study describes intrageneric hybrids of two species of black basses, Micropterus treculi and Micropterus dolomieui. Reciprocal F<sub>1</sub> hybrids were created under controlled conditions and meristic characters were measured. The reciprocal hybrids differed from each other, and each more closely resembled the maternal than the paternal parent.
10.2307/3672209|Herbaceous vegetation characteristics, below-ground root biomass, and soil water depletion patterns were assessed for big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata Nutt.) communities in northwestern New Mexico at three sites that had different historical grazing use. Herbaceous above-ground production was positively correlated with herbaceous cover. The moderately-grazed site had twice the herbaceous above-ground biomass as the protected site. Herbaceous production on the heavily grazed site was predominately threeawn (Aristida sp.) and cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum). Both blue grama (Bouteloua gracilis) and galleta (Hilaria jamesii) were more productive on the grazed sites than on the protected site. Litter accumulation was greatest on the protected site compared with the other two sites. The grazed sites had 80% of the root biomass between 0 and 40 cm, whereas about 40% of the roots were found within this same zone on the protected site. Grass root biomass within the 0- to 40-cm depth was similar among the three sites even though the moderately-grazed site had greater cover and herbaceous above-ground biomass than did either of the other sites. Shrub root biomass was also similar among the three sites. Soil water decreased as the growing season progressed, but rainfall received in late July and early August had an appreciable effect on soil water recharge at shallow depth. Soil water losses from the profile were greatest in the heavily-grazed site; therefore, this site was drier than the other two sites.
10.2307/3672210|Three desert grassland sites dominated by woody shrubs in southeastern Arizona were sampled to compare successional trends on rootplowed and undisturbed rangelands inside and outside livestock exclosures. Native perennial grass densities were very low and similar on unplowed rangelands inside and outside the 14 to 19 year-old exclosures. Exclusion of grazing did not restore the native perennial grasses of these communities. Soils disturbed by rootplowing 12 to 16 years ago were almost bare at the Bowie site but were dominated by the half-shrubs Gutierrezia sarothrae and Haplopappus tenuisectus at the San Simon and Pima sites, respectively. Dominant shrubs eliminated by rootplowing, such as Flourensia cernua, Larrea tridentata, and Prosopis juliflora var. glandulosa, exhibited limited reestablishment on the disturbed soils. Vegetation development after disturbance by grazing or rootplowing is primarily by woody plant rather than herbaceous vegetation.
10.2307/3672211|Using U.S. Forest Service fire occurrence records, we found that during the 29-year period 1955 to 1983, 1611 fires burned a total of 41,447 ha in the 391,000-ha desert portion of Tonto National Forest, Arizona (TNF). Lightning-caused fires, though fewer in number, burned approximately twice the area of fires set by people. Fires were numerous from May through August, but area burned was greater during June than all other months combined. Using average annual hectares burned and subtracting areas of overlap between fires, we estimated that 294 years were required for all parts of the TNF desert to burn. Ignoring overlap, estimated time required for an area of equal size to the TNF desert to burn is 274 years. Increasing fire occurrence during the 29-year period studied might be due to wetter-than-normal winters toward the end of the period, fuel provided by exotic annual plants, improved fire detection and reporting, and ignition by people.
10.2307/3672212|Ten isofemale lines of Drosophila pseudoobscura from each of three collecting sites in Mexico were tested at three different densities for porportion of larvae pupating, pupation height, and digging depth. There were no significant differences among the populations for any of the characteristics tested. There were highly significant effects of density on proportion of larvae pupating and pupation height but not on digging depth. These results are discussed with reference to differences in the level of third chromosome inversion polymorphism of these populations and the previously tested vagility behavior.
10.2307/3672213|Atriplex acanthocarpa (Torr.) S. Wats. occurs in clay, gypsum, subsaline flats and hillsides from southwestern New Mexico to southeastern Texas, south to Tamaulipas and through the Chihuahuan Desert Region into San Luis Potos, Mxico. The variation observed through its range is recognized in four subspecies: A. acanthocarpa subsp. acanthocarpa from southeastern New Mexico, Trans-Pecos Texas to eastern Chihuahua and western Coahuila, A. a. subsp. stewartii (I. M. Johnston) Henrickson from the Bolsn de Mapim region of central Coahuila, A. a. subsp. coahuilensis Henrickson from southern Texas, coastal Tamaulipas and central Coahuila to northern Zacatecas, and A. a. subsp. pringlei (Standley) Henrickson from Zacatecas and San Luis Potos.
10.2307/3672214|A study of zooplankton composition and density was conducted in Flaming Gorge Reservoir, Wyoming-Utah, in 1983 and 1984, and the data were compared to a study in 1965 and 1966 (3 and 4 years after impoundment). Zooplankton density tended to be less in the 1983-1984 samples than in the 1965-1966 samples for most species, while mean size was substantially less in the 1983-1984 samples than in the 1965-1966 samples for Daphnia pulex, Diaptomus sp., and Cyclops bicuspidatus thomasi. Three rotifers found in 1983 and 1984 (Kellicottia longispina, Synchaeta sp., and Squatinella sp.) were not reported in 1965 and 1966.
10.2307/3672215|Courtship behavior of Opheodrys aestivus was observed in captivity. It consisted of visual orientation toward the female by the male, followed by approach, body contact, and alignment. Motor patterns observed included head-jerking, tail waving, dorsal crawling, and chin-rubbing. Following alignment, males began tail search copulatory attempt bouts, a complex motor pattern consisting of chin-rubbing, tail waving, writhing, tail searching, and copulatory attempts. Alignment was achieved in an average of 2 min 45 s, and copulatory sequences averaged 16 min 4 s. Copulation was not observed. The courtship behavior of O. aestivus, an arboreal species, shows several differences from other colubrid species.
10.2307/3671806|Levels of genetic variability and differentiation within and among populations of the ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) are described based on allozyme data from 26 electrophoretic loci. Mean individual heterozygosity was high (H = 0.087). Spatial analysis revealed significant heterogeneity among pheasants sampled from 10 playa basins in the Texas Panhandle (mean <tex-math>$\text{F}_{\text{st}}=$</tex-math> 0.086; <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=$</tex-math> 166.27, P < 0.05). Heterogeneity of interpopulational spatial relationships was observed across separate portions of the study area. The high degree of spatial differentiation could be explained as a result of limited dispersal accentuated by heterogeneous point stockings.
10.2307/3671807|Modern geographic ranges of sexual and asexual (agamospermous) reproduction in Poa fendleriana were determined from the absence of staminate plants in populations and herbaria. Macrofossils in 13 radiocarbon dated packrat (Neotoma sp.) middens from four sites in southwestern Arizona and southeastern Utah yielded evidence of the sex, morphological race, and abundance of P. fendleriana. Radiocarbon ages on midden materials range from 20,490 to 1,820 years B.P. Sexual reproduction is recorded at 16,000 years B.P. in the Late Wisconsin full-glacial in southern Arizona but not until 3,400 years B.P. in the late Holocene in southeastern Utah. The fossil record suggests that apomicts advanced northward onto the Colorado Plateau in the latest Wisconsin or early Holocene and were followed 5,000 to 7,000 years later by sexual races.
10.2307/3671808|Paruroctonus utahensis (Williams) is a common predator on arthropods in grasslands of central New Mexico. This inactive species uses a "sit-and-wait" feeding strategy and spends most of the year in a deep burrow. An experiment was conducted to study the influence of altered scorpion density on prey populations. Results suggest that this species' population density is not limited by food abundance. These results agree with previous literature on fecundity and habitat relationships of this scorpion.
10.2307/3671809|Acacia smallii Isley (huisache), a woody legume, was grown in a greenhouse at various light intensities in a clay-sand soil mixture. Maximum root growth took place in the highest light intensity tested (41% full sunlight) with no evidence of light saturation. Mean number of nodules and both root and nodule dry weight increased as light intensity increased. The above measurements were significantly correlated to light intensity. There were no significant differences in root: shoot ratios at any of the light intensities examined. In addition, nodule weight: root weight ratios were also unchanged. Thus, allocation of carbon between above- and belowground parts seemed to be equal. A light intensity threshold for both above- and belowground growth, however, does occur. The absence of seedlings of A. smallii beneath adult trees is probably due to shade conditions that put the seedlings at a competitive disadvantage leading to their exclusion.
10.2307/3671810|Scanning electron microscopy of lemma surfaces revealed five major types of vestiture in annual Muhlenbergia species: villous macrohairs, swollen base macrohairs, prickle hairs, bicellular microhairs, and papillae. Size, wall thickness, undulation characteristics of the epidermal long cells, and specific location, shape, and arrangement of the five vestiture types are of systematic utility. Lemma micromorphological features, when employed with other macromorphological characters, indicate the presence of 10 groups in the annual Muhlenbergia.
10.2307/3671811|We conducted roadside surveys in bottomland habitats of Arkansas to determine the distribution of red-shouldered hawks (Buteo lineatus) with respect to several environmental features. Taped red-shouldered hawk vocalizations were broadcast at regular intervals (stops) along survey routes to elicit hawk responses. Red-shouldered hawks were detected at 64 of 280 stops. They were encountered most frequently in oak-gum-cypress forest, followed by elm-ash-cottonwood forest and oak-hickory forest. No hawks were detected in oak-pine forest or agricultural habitat. We sampled nine habitat characteristics at 19 nest sites and at 120 random sites. Nests of red-shouldered hawks were consistently located near water in areas with a relatively tall canopy and dense understory. Availability of suitable nest sites may be a critical factor influencing the distribution of red-shouldered hawks, and our analyses suggest that favorable sites are more common in oak-gum-cypress forest than in other habitats studied.
10.2307/3671812|A technique is described and demonstrated which uses time-temperature curves to quantify combustion zone fire behavior for research on grassland fire effects. The time-temperature parameters of degree seconds, residence time, and maximum temperature can be used to quantitatively document fire behavior in grassland fire ecology studies. Time-temperature relationships appear to be a powerful tool because they relate to the fuel and combustion characteristics of tallgrass prairie fires.
10.2307/3671813|Standard karyotypes for five species of Heteromys are described. Most species in the genus (Heteromys anomalus, Heteromys desmarestianus, Heteromys goldmani, Heteromys oresterus, and an undescribed form) possess a diploid number (2n) of 60, with the exceptions of Heteromys gaumeri (2n = 56) and Heteromys nelsoni (2n = 42). Within H. desmarestianus, variation in the number of autosomal arms (fn) is extensive, ranging from 67 to 86. The distribution of heterochromatin is described for H. oresterus, H. nelsoni, Heteromys sp., and H. desmarestianus (two karyotypes with different numbers of autosomal arms). The distributional pattern of heterochromatin is complex, but variation in number of autosomal arms within the species examined with 2n = 60 (H. desmarestianus, H. oresterus, Heteromys sp.) is not due to variation in whole arms of C-band-positive material. Therefore, karyotypic evolution must have involved euchromatic rearrangements. Karyotypic data indicate that H. nelsoni is highly derived relative to H. oresterus, the other member of the subgenus Xylomys. Variation among some chromosomal forms within H. desmarestianus indicates a subdivision that may be of sufficient magnitude to preclude gene flow.
10.2307/3671814|The bobcat (Felis rufus) was studied in a <tex-math>$71.3\text{-km}^{2}$</tex-math> area in western Arkansas from 1982 to 1984. Minimum density averaged 1 bobcat/<tex-math>$9.6\ \text{km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Home ranges were determined for six radiocollared bobcats. A home range of <tex-math>$64.2\ \text{km}^{2}$</tex-math> was estimated for an adult male, and three adult females averaged <tex-math>$24.5\ \text{km}^{2}$</tex-math> using a minimum area method. Adults retained their home ranges with no major shifts throughout the study. The mean movement rate for all bobcats was 2.2 km/h, and movement rates for individual bobcats varied seasonally. Density estimates and home ranges were similar to those reported for bobcats in mountainous habitats of Oklahoma and Missouri. Habitats most frequently selected by bobcats were 0- to 20-year-forest regeneration and mature-hardwood timber stands.
10.2307/3671815|The loach minnow, Tiaroga cobitis, is an obligate riffle-dwelling fish that inhabits shallow (<20 cm) water with current 30 to 40 cm/s over gravel to cobble (16 to 256 mm) substrate. Habitat (velocity, depth, substrate) used varied with stream size and habitat availability and appeared to be related to both fish size and the individual fish's response to current. Adults (>38 m total length) occupied habitat different from larvae (<28 mm total length) but not different from juveniles (29 to 37 mm total length). Data suggest that, although the loach minnow is widely adapted to physical habitat, loss of habitat across its range has caused its demise.
10.2307/3671816|Stomach contents of 730 angler-caught subadult striped bass from Lake Mead were examined. Threadfin shad represented 88% of the fish consumed and represented a similar proportion, by volume, of the stomach contents. Threadfin shad made up the majority of the diet except during spring when they were infrequently preyed upon. Invertebrates, including crustacean zooplankton, crayfish, and chironomid larvae, were common in the diet during spring. Composition of the diet was similar in both years of our study (1981 and 1982), but fewer prey, especially threadfin shad, were consumed in 1982.
10.2307/3671817|La golondrina marina menor, Sterna antillarum browni, es una subespecie declarada en peligro de extincin tanto en los Estados Unidos como en Mxico. Nidifica en las playas de California y Baja California. Se seala la existencia de colonias reproductoras en el Golfo de California (Laguna Perceb), donde comparte el territorio de anidacin con Charadrius alexandrinus. Se consignan datos sobre recuentos de huevos y pollos en cuatro temporadas de anidacin (1983 a 1986), observaciones sobre el comportamiento defensivo de las aves y efecto de varios disturbios sobre la colonia, incluyendo la amenaza del impacto turstico. Se sugieren medidas para la proteccin y recuperacin de la poblacin. /// The California least tern, Sterna antillarum browni, is considered an endangered species both in the United States and Mexico. Observations on hitherto unknown nesting grounds located in the Gulf of California were made during four breeding seasons (1983 to 1986). Breeding grounds are shared with Charadrius alexandrinus. Egg and chick counts at two nesting sites are given as well as defensive behavior and effect of disturbance (flooding, predation, off-road vehicles, tourist development). Management measures promoting protection and recovery of the population are proposed.
10.2307/3671726|Correlation analysis of community ordination axes on a suite of environmental variables indicates that herpetofaunal species distributions differentiate along a dominant east-west gradient of decreasing precipitation and productivity and along a south-north gradient of decreasing mean annual temperature, increasing rigor of winter cold, and increasing seasonality of temperature. Potential herpetofaunal regions identified by hierarchical cluster analysis were revealed by ordination to be complex and continuous one with another. Contoured ordination scores exhibit complicated patterns of species distributional turnover. There are a few areas of relatively rapid transition in species composition, but other areas showed little change across considerable distances. Regression analysis gave ecological meaning to patterns of species richness and the major environmental gradients identified by ordination. Richness of salamanders, frogs, toads, and turtles peaked in the mesic end of the first ordination vector and declined toward the dry end. Lizard richness increased from the mesic end of its ordination axis, with highest values in the xeric terminus. Snakes exhibited a linear relationship to the first community ordination axis, but the variance in snake richness explained by this gradient was quite low. This is consonant with the biology of most snakes as habitat generalists. Amphibians and turtles appear to be highly dependent upon precipitation, an abiotic factor. In contrast, snakes, and especially lizards, seem to be more dependent upon habitat structural complexity, a mainly biotic factor.
10.2307/3671727|A 32-day colonization experiment was conducted to assess the effect of substrate particle size on the accumulation and size distribution of particulate detritus and on the distribution and abundance of benthic macroinvertebrates in a southern Nevada desert stream. Wire mesh baskets containing either gravel (mean particle diameter = 11.5 mm), pebble (mpd = 32.9 mm), cobble (mpd = 67.9 mm), or a mixture of these three sizes were used to represent substrate patches with different physical characteristics. The smallest substrate (gravel) collected the greatest quantity of fine detritus (<1 mm) and was colonized by the greatest number of macroinvertebrates. The largest substrate (cobble) collected the smallest quantity of fine detritus and the largest quantity of coarse detritus (>1 mm) and was colonized by the lowest number of macroinvertebrates. Although macroinvertebrate abundance was significantly higher in the gravel substrate, macroinvertebrate biomass was greatest in the cobble substrate indicating a difference in the size of organisms colonizing the different substrates. There was a significant positive correlation between macroinvertebrate abundance and quantities of fine detritus but no correlation between macroinvertebrate biomass and detritus quantities. The benthic macroinvertebrate assemblage was dominated by small-bodied collector-gatherer insects, dominated by Baetis sp. (Ephemeroptera: Baetidae) and Orthocladiinae (Diptera: Chironomidae), indicating the importance of this trophic group and their fine detrital food resource to the structure and function of desert stream ecosystems.
10.2307/3671728|Juvenile razorback sucker (Xyrauchen texanus), 45 to 168 mm standard length, reintroduced within their native range into the Gila River, Arizona, suffered intensive predation by two, non-native ictalurids, channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) and flathead catfish (Pylodictis olivaris). Estimated losses in the 2.5-km study reach over a 2-day post-stocking period were up to 900 individuals/km in autumn. If typical, predation may be high enough to preclude local re-establishment of the species by juvenile stockings at that time of year. Predation in autumn was lower when average size of stocked fish was increased from 68 to 113 mm standard length. Extrapolated total loss to predation in winter, when channel catfish did not feed actively, was about one-sixth that in autumn. Cold-weather planting of larger razorback suckers, in the range of 300 mm long, may be one way to enhance post-stocking survival.
10.2307/3671729|Eudiagogus rosenschoeldi Fahraeus and Eudiagogus pulcher Fahraeus occur sympatrically and synchronically in Central Texas. Adults and larvae of E. rosenschoeldi utilize Sesbania vesicaria (Jacq.) Ell. and Sesbania macrocarpa Muhl. as hosts while E. pulcher develops on these as well as Sesbania drummondii (Rydb.) Cory. Adults feed externally on foliage, and larve feed on nitrogen-fixing root nodules. Pupation occurs in soil in close proximity to roots of the hosts. Average duration of the egg stage of both species was slightly less than 7 days at 26C. Both weevils were determined under controlled conditions to have five larval instars. The cumulative average of larval instars 1 through 5 of both species was 22 days in the laboratory. Average duration of the pupal stage of E. rosenschoeldi was 7.7 days and of E. pulcher 6.4 days at 26C. Based on data accumulated on the various developmental stages in this study, several generations of both species probably occur in the field each year. Oviposition occurred early in the season on stems of seedlings and later on lower parts of host plant stems and on any exposed portions of root systems. As an indication of the large number of eggs deposited, one field-collected female of E. rosenschoeldi deposited 1,329 eggs during 3 months of confinement in the laboratory. The majority of female weevils examined had mated before entering winter diapause. Large numbers of individuals overwinterd under loose bark of standing trees. The behavior and life histories of the two species show a large degree of similarity.
10.2307/3671730|The importance of temperature in regulating foraging activity of ants was evaluated in Pogonomyrmex montanus MacKay, Pogonomyrmex subnitidus Emery, and Pogonomyrmex rugosus Emery in southern California. The three species, as well as a number of other species in the genus, demonstrate a bimodal foraging pattern with reduced foraging activity during mid-day. Ambient temperature had little effect on P. montanus, an ant from moderate mountain habitats. Temperature was very important in regulating foraging in P. subnitidus and P. rugosus, which both occur in arid environments. The ants apparently anticipated that the habitat would cool in the afternoon and began foraging when temperatures were still quite high. This study, as well as others, clearly document that temperature is one of the most important factors determining diurnal foraging patterns in ants. /// La importancia de temperatura en regular la actividad de hormigas fu evaluada en Pogonomyrmex montanus MacKay, Pogonomyrmex subnitidus Emery, y Pogonomyrmex rugosus Emery en el sur de California, EUA. Las tres especies, adems de otras especies en el gnero, demuestran un patrn bimodal en su actividad diurna, reduciendo su actividad cuando las temperaturas son ms altas. La temperatura es un factor muy importante en la actividad de P. subnitidus y P. rugosus, especies que existen en habitats ridos. Este estudio, junto con otros, demuestran que la temperatura es uno de los principales factores que regulan la actividad de hormigas.
10.2307/3671731|Rhysodesmus chisosi new species, the second American species of Rhysodesmus (tribe Rhysodesmini) and the second chelodesmoid polydesmid from the southwestern deserts, is described and illustrated from three males collected in the Chisos Mountains of Big Bend National Park, Texas. It is the fourth xystodesmid species recorded from Texas, the fifth milliped reported from the Park, and the second which is apparently endemic to this mountain range. The species shares few features with Rhysodesmus texicolens (Chamberlin), in the lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas and northeastern Mexico, and appears closest to Rhysodesmus murallensis Loomis, in Coahuila Province, Mexico. An unidentifiable juvenile xystodesmid recently taken from a cave in central Texas is probably also a member of this tribe.
10.2307/3671732|Distribution of the northern redbelly dace, Phoxinus eos, in the South Platte River Basin, Colorado, was historically restricted to a narrow band of stream habitat in the transition zone along the Front Range of the Rocky Mountains. Phoxinus eos has been taken only in the West Plum Creek drainage since 1951, where it mainly occupies off-channel lentic habitats that are cool, clear, vegetated, and without large predaceous fishes. Age and growth, reproduction, and diet characteristics are similar to those known for populations of P. eos in the center of the species' range. The naturally limited range and habitat of P. eos in Colorado has been much reduced by stream channelization, reductions in discharge, and changes in water quality. Continued urban development threatens remaining populations.
10.2307/3671733|Protein variation in members of the cyprinid genus Gila endemic to the Colorado River drainage (Gila cypha, Gila elegans, Gila robusta robusta, and G. r. seminuda) was examined through electrophoresis of 23 presumptive loci. Fixation of loci for different alleles between morphologically recognized taxa was not found. Allelic differentiation was incomplete, with some variation distributed in a specific or subspecific fashion. Although now extremely reduced in numbers, G. elegans may have retained a significant fraction of its original variability. In contrast, G. cypha in the Upper Colorado River Basin may have experienced substantial allelic loss in recent years. Considerable hybridization may have occurred between G. cypha and G. r. robusta in the Upper Basin. The origin of G. r. seminuda may have included hybridization between G. elegans and G. r. robusta or their progenitors. Sample sizes were sometimes small, and tissues were obtained over a 4-year period from localities often hundreds of kilometers apart; consequently, sampling error, temporal shifts in allele frequencies, and isolation by distance as well as local differentiation remain unresolved factors.
10.2307/3671734|A study was conducted on Holla Bend National Wildlife Refuge, in western Arkansas, to determine the extent to which bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) wintering on the area were exposed to lead shot. Waterfowl comprised a significant portion of the diet; 61% of egested bald eagle castings contained waterfowl remains. Lead shot was found in 9 of 31 waterfowl carcasses that provide much of the winter food supply of bald eagles on the refuge. Lead shot was found in 7% of 82 egested castings, indicating that eagles do ingest lead shot in the process of feeding.
10.2307/3671735|The johnny darter, Etheostoma nigrum Rafinesque, reaches the western limits of its native range in the Platte River drainage of northeastern Colorado. In the South Platte River basin, it historically occurred throughout foothill stream reaches, but anthropogenic modifications have reduced its range in many streams and eliminated it from some. The johnny darter remains common in the North Platte River basin. The species was most frequently found in shallow, slow-velocity water over a cobble-sand substrate. Chironomidae larvae were its most important food item throughout the year. Spawning peaked in July to early August. Development was rapid in the first year of life, and most growth was attained by the end of the second summer. In Colorado, few johnny darters survived past age III. Greatest adult mortality appeared to be among age-II fish after spawning. Most life history traits we studied are similar to those reported for the johnny darter in the central portion of its range. The difference in time of spawning among studies was probably due to the slower spring-warming of water in Colorado.
10.2307/3671736|Vegetation structure and the numbers of shrubs were measured at nest sites of 11 species of riparian birds in a tamarisk (Tamarix ramosissima) community to characterize breeding habitat by species. Discriminant function analysis indicated that riparian birds exhibited significant differences in their use of nesting habitat. Bell's vireo (Vireo bellii), yellow warbler (Dendroica petechia), and yellow-breasted chat (Icteria virens) were relative generalists in their use of nesting habitat, while common yellowthroat (Geothlypis trichas) and Bullock's oriole (Icterus galbula bullockii) were relative specialists. Bell's vireo and American coot (Fulica americana) used the most dissimilar habitats. Willow flycatcher (Empidonax traillii) and yellow warbler used the most similar habitats. Willow flycatcher and yellow warbler consistently used habitat most similar to that used by other species. The tamarisk community created by the operation of Glen Canyon Dam represents the ecological equivalent of native habitat for some riparian birds, and its presence has enhanced breeding habitat for these 11 species of birds.
10.2307/3671737|Foraging by marked Trachymyrmex turrifex ants was examined over a 3-week period in Austin, Texas. Ants foraged nocturnally and collected plant debris and insect frass, but they did not cut live vegetation. Individual ants showed no fidelity to food type or foraging route.
10.2307/3672158|Composition, numbers, and biomass of aquatic insects emerging from Kings Creek, a tallgrass prairie stream in Kansas, were quantified during the summers of 1986 and 1987 at six study sites. Mean emergence was 101 individuals <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{d}^{-1}$</tex-math> and 20.3 mg <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{d}^{-1}$</tex-math>. The most common taxa were Chironomidae (Diptera) and Ephemeroptera. Discharge greatly influenced emergence production with lowest production rates occurring as streams dried. Aquatic adults and terrestrial insects falling into the stream averaged 2.7 mg <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{d}^{-1}$</tex-math>, thus net export was 17.6 mg <tex-math>$\text{m}^{-2}\text{d}^{-1}$</tex-math>. Because stream export exceeds terrestrial arthropod production, prairie streams may be important feeding areas for terrestrial predators.
10.2307/3672159|In the arid, sagebrush-steppe ecosystem of southwestern Wyoming, Eleodes darkling beetles partition microhabitats across a mosaic of shrub patches differing in mean shrub height and density. In this study, the functional role of behavioral responses of four species of darkling beetles to vegetation architecture was examined under both laboratory and field conditions. Behavioral data were integrated with known physiological attributes of each species to explain the observed field distributions. Laboratory tests of orientation responses of beetles to an artificial vegetation architecture (black and white silhouettes of shrubs) revealed that Eleodes constrictus and Eleodes pimelioides, which preferred cool, shrub-shaded microhabitats, approached shrub silhouettes more frequently and at lower temperatures than Eleodes extricatus, a species from a warm, more open microhabitat. Shrub orientation responses became more pronounced at higher temperatures. Eleodes nigrinus, a strictly nocturnal species that also preferred open habitats, responded to the shrub silhouettes only at high temperatures. Physiological attributes (species-specific temperature preferences and tolerance to heat stress) were associated with each species' response intensity. In the field, a replicated, shrub architecture manipulation experiment tested for shifts in microhabitat use among the four species of beetles. Vegetation manipulation (shrub removal or addition) resulted in the virtual extirpation of E. constrictus and E. extricatus from their respective microhabitats, but not of E. pimelioides and E. nigrinus. Shrub manipulation did not result in recruitment of species to favorable microhabitants, indicating that while vegetation architecture is a critical microhabitat component, other factors are also involved in microhabitat selection by Eleodes.
10.2307/3672160|A simple and reliable method to prepare karyotypes from recently dead specimens was evaluated under field conditions. This postmortem method relies on a brief period of in vitro culturing of bone marrow cells from dead specimens. To assess the overall usefulness of this method for field studies, 87 pocket gophers (Thomomys bottae) were karyotyped with the postmortem method and their karyotypes were compared with those from 41 pocket gophers karyotyped with the conventional in vivo method. The quality and quantity of metaphase chromosomal spreads on preparations made with the postmortem method are not significantly different than those made with the in vivo technique. While the quality and quantity of metaphase cells decrease significantly as postmortem times increase, the mean quality is also not significantly different between postmortem chromosomal preparations obtained from the live- and dead-trapped specimens. Excellent karyotypes can be obtained from specimens with mean postmortem times of up to 2 h. The postmortem method is suitable for karyotyping birds and mammals and may also prove useful for karyotyping other vertebrates.
10.2307/3672161|More than 1,000 food items, representing 22 species of fish and one invertebrate, were identified from olivaceous cormorants (Phalacrocorax olivaceus). Six species of fish comprised 79% of the diet by frequency of occurrence and 78% by weight. Almost half of the diet consisted of a single species, the sheepshead minnow (Cyprinodon variegatus). Concentrations of p,p-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE) in cormorant carcasses were 27 times greater than those in fish and 57 times higher in cormorant eggs than fish. Concentrations of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) were 18 times higher in carcasses and 15 times higher in eggs than in fish. The biomagnification of other organochlorine contaminants through the cormorant food base in Galveston Bay is difficult to evaluate because the only compounds detected in all three tissues (cormorant food, carcasses, and eggs) at 50% frequency of occurrence were DDE and PCB.
10.2307/3672162|On 52 dates during 1981 and 1982, populations of littoral Cladocera were sampled from submerged surfaces of the rooted aquatic plant Ludwigia peploides in four ponds near College Station, Texas. Gamogenesis (formation of sexual stages) was detected in only 11 of 20 species and 12 of 54 populations found in the four ponds, and its intensity was normally very low (<10%). Most of the cool temperate species became gamogenetic in the spring, and warm temperate species became gamogenetic in the summer or fall. The climate in South-central Texas is sufficiently mild that annual gamogenesis may be unnecessary for most species.
10.2307/3672163|Spiders of 10 families, 18 genera, and 22 species were associated with three species of Arceuthobium in northern Colorado. Spider-species composition varied among species of dwarf mistletoe. Two indices of similarity (QS and PS) indicated that spider faunas of Arceuthobium cyanocarpum and Arceuthobium vaginatum were dissimilar. None of the spiders are restricted to dwarf mistletoes; species-habitat associations include numerous conifers. Spider-mistletoe relationships are discussed, and presence of mistletoe pollen on spiders is recorded for the first time.
10.2307/3672164|Fieldwork in Arizona and Sonora in 1981, 1982, and 1984 revealed 44 new localities for the Arizona mud turtle (Kinosternon flavescens arizonense), verified the presence of the turtle at or near 16 of the previously known 21 localities, demonstrated the microsympatry of this turtle with the Alamos mud turtle (Kinosternon alamosae), and provided the first information on habitat, growth, and reproduction. Multivariate statistical analysis confirmed the distinctiveness of the taxon and revealed very little microgeographic variation among river basin populations. Despite its relatively small range in Arizona and Sonora the species is not considered threatened. /// Se describen la distribucion y biologa de la tortuga de Arizona (Kinosternon flavescens arizonense). Se encuentra esta tortuga en charcos temporales de la cuenca del Rio Sonoyta en el estado de Arizona al sur hasta el Rio Yaqui en el estado de Sonora. Se presentan los primeros datos sobre la actividad anual, la reproducin, la crecimiento y la alimentacin de esta tortuga.
10.2307/3672165|Langeronia jimenezi nueva especie se obtuvieron del intestino de Rana pipiens procedentes de los municipios de Santiago y Pesquera, Nuevo Len, Mxico; se caracterizan por presentar el poro reproductor ventral, entre el acetbulo y el ciego intestinal izquierdo, glndulas vitelgenas distribuidas desde el nivel de la faringe hasta por encima del poro reproductor y bolsa del cirro que ocupa el espacio postbifurcal. /// Langeronia jimenezi new species is described from the gut of Rana pipiens of Santiago and Pesquera, Nuevo Len, Mxico. It is characterized by a ventral reproductive pore localized between the acetabulum and the left cecum. Vitellaria extend from the level of the pharynx above the reproductive pore and cirrus pouch which fills the postbifurcal area.
10.2307/3672166|The Houston toad, Bufo houstonensis, is an explosive breeder. During the spring of 1982 at a stock pond in Bastrop Co., Texas, I followed an aggregation through a breeding season that lasted 4 months. I found females on only 15 nights and evidence of oviposition on 7 nights. Mean size did not differ between non-amplectant males and amplectant males or, for amplectant males, between males found on ovipositing females and those that were not. On the night of peak density, there was more movement by those males that were amplectant some time during that breeding period than by non-amplectant males. A displacement level of 8% (5 of 64 recaptured amplectant females) was estimated. Males marked during the previous season (1981) that returned in 1982 were found more often on ovipositing females than were other males.
10.2307/3672167|The callipodid milliped genus Texophon, occurring along the Gulf Coast of southern Texas, consists of two species, Texophon nessium Chamberlin and Texophon aransas new species, distinguished primarily by the configurations of the coxal processes and telopodites of the male gonopods. Although sympatric with the eastern caspiopetalid genus Abacion, Texophon is related to western schizopetalid genera of the tribe Colactidini, subfamily Acanthopetalinae, and the new tribe Texophonini is erected to accommodate it.
10.2307/3672168|In Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, Arizona, height-class distributions of senita (Lophocereus schottii) indicate that recent regeneration has not been widespread. The majority of small plants in six of seven study sites showed evidence of asexual reproduction. Only the lowest elevation site showed extensive recent reproduction from seed. The potential for sexual reproduction of senita populations in the monument during summer 1986 was high. Most plants >2 m bore flowers and fruits, with each mature senita producing >100 fruits on average. A sample of 38 fruits collected had a mean seed content of 203 seeds/fruit, with a mean laboratory germination percentage of 81.6 at 20 to 25C and a 12-h photoperiod. The absence of small plants in most sites was attributed to high seedling mortality rates, most likely from frequent freeze damage. Most habitats in the monument that senita occupies are alluvial flats that are affected by cold air drainage and likely experience more freezes than surrounding hillsides at slightly higher elevations.
10.2307/3672169|In the Gila River drainage of southwestern New Mexico, roundtail chub (Gila robusta) were historically widespread and relatively common in mainstream and larger tributary habitats. Natural and human-induced habitat alterations and establishment of non-native predator fishes are believed to be the primary reasons for the current reduced range and abundance of this species. Roundtail chub has been extirpated from the San Francisco River, a major tributary of the Gila River. It persists mainly in reaches of the Gila River drainage that are free of non-native predators or where natural flow regimes and periodic flooding might act to suppress introduced predator populations and maintain habitat variability.
10.2307/3671502|Between 12 February and 4 April 1986, we recorded 93 nocturnal observations at 28 separate roost locations for four immature, transmitter-equipped bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) wintering in north-central Arizona. Location, frequency, and timing of roost selection indicate eagles tended to move independently among preferred habitats, repetitively using roosts common to more than one eagle. Mean seasonal home range was 401.2 km<sup>2</sup>. Variability in roosting patterns was greater than reported for other wintering areas and appears related to ephemeral prey on peripheral winter range.
10.2307/3671503|Nineteen Masticophis flagellum were observed for >24 h each. Snakes actively pursued lizards in open habitats such as creosotebush shrubland but used a "sit-and-wait" or "ambush" feeding behavior in mid-summer in mesquite coppice dune habitats where the canopy provided continuous shade. The ambush feeding behavior by M. flagellum resulted in higher capture success, reduced handling time, and reduced losses of captured prey during handling. Although M. flagellum is known to be a fast-moving snake that actively seeks prey, we report the first observations of this snake using a sit-and-wait feeding behavior.
10.2307/3671504|Habitat preferences and seasonal abundances of eight sympatric species of tiger beetle of the genus Cicindela were monitored over a 3-year period in Bastrop State Park, Bastrop Co., Texas. Cicindela scutellaris, Cicindela formosa, and Cicindela punctulata preferred open trails and forest clearings of loose fine sand. Cicindela splendida, Cicindela rufiventris, and Cicindela obsoleta preferred eroded bluffs or trails with exposures of red clay mixed with siliceous or sandstone pebbles while Cicindela sexguttata occupied shaded forest trails of sandy loam. Cicindela ocellata occurred sporadically around a temporary pond within the forest. Larvae of each species were restricted to the preferred soil of the adult, and several species colonized new areas of microhabitat during the study. Each species exhibited either a spring-fall or summer life-history pattern. Cicindela scutellaris, C. splendida, C. formosa, and C. sexguttata eclosed in the fall, overwintered, and were reproductively active the following spring. Cicindela rufiventris, C. punctulata, and C. ocellata pupated and eclosed in late spring and were active as adults throughout the summer months. Adults of C. obsoleta emerged in early August and were active until late September.
10.2307/3671505|The food habits of the aquatic insects from three cold desert streams were determined. Detritivores were the dominant organisms in all streams, amounting to 55, 65, and 63% of the insect taxa in Douglas Creek, Snively Springs, and Rattlesnake Springs, respectively. Collecting (gathering and filtering) was the major feeding strategy employed, and we inferred that detritus in the form of fine particulate organic matter is the major food source in small, headwater cold desert streams.
10.2307/3671506|We investigated consumption of barrel cacti by desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) in the Harquahala and Little Harquahala mountains, Arizona. We calculated the number of barrel cacti consumed per number of feeding bouts for each season and each mountain range. In both ranges, there was a general pattern of barrel cacti consumption by bighorn sheep from summer to fall to winter with a decreased use of cacti during spring. Our data suggest that bighorn sheep will seek out surface water when available but are able to survive the hottest, driest seasons without free water by supplementing their water demands by eating barrel cacti.
10.2307/3671507|Breeding bird assemblages were quantified on a 7,600-ha study area in northern New Mexico. Birds were censused on spot-mapping grids within six of eight habitats during the spring and summer of 1985. Population estimates were made for 43 species in at least one habitat while 113 confirmed and potential breeding species were documented in the study area. The riparian habitat had the highest density of breeding birds (203.3 pairs/40 ha) while sagebrush-grasslands had the lowest density (75.6 pairs/40 ha). Sagebrush-grassland habitat had the lowest species richness, and wooded canyon benches had the highest species richness. The greatest similarity in breeding bird species occurred in adjacent and structurally similar habitats.
10.2307/3671508|Feral populations of the African clawed frog (Xenopus laevis) exist in several areas of southern California. By following the first cohort of progeny produced by African clawed frogs at a recently colonized site, data on the growth rates and age at first maturity were obtained in field conditions. Females reached maturity at an earlier age than males, grew faster than males, and attained body lengths up to 25% larger than males. Larger females were capable of producing larger numbers of eggs than small females and, therefore, had greater reproductive potential. The relatively stable ambient temperatures of southern California contributed to the possibility of reproduction of clawed frogs during all but the coolest periods of the year. Cycles detected in the mass of fatbodies suggested that nutrients were mobilized from fat prior to and during ovulation. The amount of fat in females varied widely, but fat in males tended to accumulate as the males grew during the study period.
10.2307/3671509|Seven localities in low elevations of the Mojave Desert (below 1,000 m in elevation) yielded fossils that may range in age from late Irvingtonian to Holocene; herein we report on the sciurid rodents from these localities. The fossil record suggests that Spermophilus townsendii, present today in the Great Basin but absent from the Mojave Desert, had a long history in the region; that S. townsendii and Tamias minimus, present in the latest Pleistocene, disappeared from low elevations of the Mojave Desert between 12,000 and 10,000 years before present; and that the subgenus Xerospermophilus, characteristic of the region today, appeared during the same interval. Only Ammospermophilus leucurus occurred in both late Pleistocene and Holocene assemblages. Turnover near the end of the Pleistocene seems to be closely coincident with the extirpation of low-elevation woodlands from the Mojave Desert.
10.2307/3671510|The effects of encounter experience on the hunting behavior of Pepsis formosa (Say) were analyzed. The time required to complete the hunting sequence significantly decreased with increasing numbers of encounters between the wasp and its tarantula host, Rhechostica echina (Simon). The amount of time required to complete certain behavioral components of hunting, such as initial approach and antennation as well as the paralyzation sequence, decreased significantly as a function of increasing encounters with the spider. Encounter experience had no similar effect on behavioral components of the wasp, such as grooming, burial and oviposition, and closure of the nest.
10.2307/3671511|El Instituto de Ecologa A.C. de la ciudad de Mxico ha venido realizando investigaciones sobre la regin del Pinacate en el extremo Noroeste de Sonora. Mediante capturas y observaciones peridicas, se han podido identificar 42 especies de anfibios y reptiles. La vegetacin de galera fue la de mayor riqueza especfica (17 especies) y, las dunas y cerros las ms pobres (nueve especies). La riqueza especfica aumenta conforme se desciende de los cerros hacia las bajadas. Respecto al habitat se observ que los suelos arenosos estables con vegetacin abierta albergan la mayora de las especies, mientras que las suelos arcillosos son menos frecuentados. Seis especies fueron las ms importantes por su amplia distribucin Coleonyx variegatus, Dipsosaurus dorsalis, Uta stansburiana, Cnemidophorus tigris, Masticophis flagellum, y Crotalus atrox. /// The Institute of Ecology from Mexico City has investigated the amphibians and reptiles of the Pinacate region in extreme northwestern Sonora. Forty-two species have been identified from periodic collecting and observations. The riparian vegetation had the highest species richness (17 species), and the dunes and higher slopes had the least (nine species). Species richness increased from mountain peaks to the lower slopes. Firm sandy soils with open vegetation contained the majority of the species, while areas of windblown sand contained the least. Six species with the greatest abundance and widest distribution were Coleonyx variegatus, Dipsosaurus dorsalis, Uta stansburiana, Cnemidophorus tigris, Masticophis flagellum, and Crotalus atrox.
10.2307/3671512|A new species of bombyliid, Mythicomyia (Mythicomyia) sedonae, from central Arizona is described and illustrated. Its uniqueness is exemplified by its unusually large size (twice the average size of species of this genus) and its apparent endemism to the Sedona area in association with flowers of Erigeron divergens.
10.2307/3671513|A sample of literature and museum localities of leopard frogs (Rana pipiens complex) was surveyed in Arizona and Imperial Valley, California, from 1983 to 1987. We found Rana chiricahuensis at only two of 36 localities which previously supported the species in the 1960s and 1970s; two new localities are reported. For 13 of 28 literature localities surveyed for R. pipiens, none were found to be inhabited, although one previously unreported population was discovered. Rana blairi was found at two of six literature localities surveyed, and a new population is reported. Rana yavapaiensis could not be found in Imperial Valley and the lower Colorado River, Arizona-California, but populations in upland Arizona are relatively intact. Introduced Rana berlandieri has replaced R. yavapaiensis along the Colorado and Gila rivers, Arizona. These apparent losses represent additional decimation of an increasingly endangered North American ranid fauna.
10.2307/3671978|Electrophoretic analyses of 34 presumptive loci were conducted for 100 mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) from Colorado and a smaller sample of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) from South Carolina. Genetic variability in mule deer was estimated as percent polymorphic loci (P = 17.1), number of alleles per locus (A = 1.20) and mean percent multilocus heterozygosity (H = 3.6). Genetic variability in mule deer is close to that expected in general for mammals (H = 4.1%) and the same as the mean in cervids in general (H = 3.6%). Mule deer from the four localities did not differ in their levels of genetic variability, though significant spatial variation in their allele frequencies was observed <tex-math>$(\text{F}_{\text{st}}=0.032)$</tex-math>. Rogers' genetic distance between mule deer and white-tailed deer was estimated as 0.153.
10.2307/3671979|The effects of previous heavy grazing over an extended period (> 50 years) were assessed by measuring soil and vegetation characteristics in paired plots inside and outside of Chaco Culture National Historical Park in northwestern New Mexico. Soil compaction was greater in the grazed areas. Soil moisture was greatest on the hillside position where greatest herbage production for Indian ricegrass (Oryzopsis hymenoides) was found. Long-term heavy grazing has resulted in a reduction of desirable shrub vegetation; however, grazing has had little effect on grass cover, density, and production. Indian ricegrass, the dominant cool-season grass, was found in greater proportions on the hillsides and hilltops than in swales. It is likely that this grass was influenced by soil characteristics and past grazing preferences.
10.2307/3671980|The biology of Largus californicus (Van Duzee) in coastal southern California is reported. Eggs are laid on the ground in clusters of, on average, 130 eggs. Developmental time is approximately 14 days in the egg stage and 100 days in the five nymphal stages; adults live from 2 to 7 months. Dramatic changes in color occur. First instars are red, second through fifth instars are black, and adults are black with orange edges on the pronotum and wings. Nymphs are often found in clusters of >100 individuals. Adults are non-flying, and all stages feed mainly on plants but supplement their diet with feces and carrion. There are two generations per year, and adults overwinter. Some lizards find the bugs distasteful.
10.2307/3671981|Demographic parameters of a Rio Grande turkey (Meleagris gallopavo intermedia) population wintering on the Rob and Bessie Welder Wildlife Refuge, Texas, were investigated using 11 years (1961 to 1972) of mark-recapture data. Sex ratios were skewed favoring females in all years. Juvenile: adult and juvenile: adult female ratios were low and suggest low recruitment of young. There was no difference (P > 0.05) in age-specific survival; survival of adult hens was significantly higher than that of adult males in 5 of 7 years. Annual survival averaged 55% and exceeded 70% in some years. Winter populations peaked at 981 birds in 1965. A population decline occurred about 1968. The observed rate of increase (-0.106) differed significantly from zero (P = 0.008, r = 0.778, d.f. = 8).
10.2307/3671982|Nesting success of the San Clemente sage sparrow (Amphispiza belli clementea) was monitored during March to July 1986 on San Clemente Island. Nesting success was high. All but one of 28 nests fledged at least one individual. Egg success was lower than nestling success. On average, two individuals fledged per nest. Several nesting pairs produced two clutches, and five pairs produced a third clutch. Predation was suspected in three cases where eggs disappeared or were found destroyed prior to hatching.
10.2307/3671983|Between March and June 1986, we sampled fish at 22 stations on 17 streams in and adjacent to the newly established Sierra de Manantln Biosphere Reserve, Jalisco and Colima, Mxico. Our sampling included both mountain headwaters and lowland rivers in three separate Pacific Ocean drainages: Purificacin, Marabasco, and Ayuqula-Armera. We captured a total of 3,191 fish in 15 species (13 native) and 8 families; all but two of the stations contained fish. The most abundant and widespread species are in the families Goodeidae and Poeciliidae. Compared to other parts of North and Central America, the fish fauna of the Sierra de Manantln is depauperate and has a high proportion of endemics. Diversion of streams for irrigation and unrestricted land use (agriculture, forestry, and mining) in stream watersheds threaten fish populations in and around the Sierra de Manantln. /// Entre marzo y junio de 1986, muestreamos peces en 22 sitios de 17 arroyos en el rea limtrofe de la recen establecida Reserva de la Biosfera, Sierra de Manantln, en Jalisco y Colima, Mxico. Nuestro muestreo incluy tanto nacimientos de ros de montaa, as como ros de planicie de tres diferentes cuencas del Ocano Pacfico: Purificacin, Marabasco, y Ayuqula-Armera. En todos los sitios de muestreo, excepto en dos, encontramos peces y recolectamos un total de 3,191 individuos pertenecientes a 8 familias y 15 especies (13 nativas). Las especies ms abundantes y de ms amplia distribucin pertenecen a las familias Goodeidae y Poeciliidae. Comparado con otras partes de Norte y Centro Amrica, la ictiofauna de la Sierra de Manantln es pobre, pero tiene una alta proporcin de especies endmicas. El desvio de los ros para irrigacin y la falta de reglamentacin en el uso de la tierra (agricultura, silvicultura y minera) en las cuencas de los ros amenazan a las poblaciones de peces de la Sierra de Manantln y sus zonas aledanas.
10.2307/3671984|Vaejovis dugesi Pocock, previously recognized as a subspecies of Vaejovis mexicanus Koch, is redescribed and elevated to specific status. Two new species are described: Vaejovis chisos, from the Chisos Mountains in Big Bend National Park, Texas, and Vaejovis sprousei, from the Mexican states of Tamaulipas and Nuevo Len. /// Vaejovis dugesi Pocock, reconocido previamente como una subespecie de Vaejovis mexicanus Koch, es redescrito y elevado a estado especfico. Se describen dos nuevas especies: Vaejovis chisos, de Chisos Mountains en el Parque National Big Bend, Texas, y Vaejovis sprousei, de los estados mexicanos de Tamaulipas y Nuevo Len.
10.2307/3671985|Electrophoretic variability within and among populations of Peromyscus attwateri and Peromyscus leucopus from four localities in southwestern Missouri was examined. Peromyscus attwateri inhabits isolated, rocky habitats that have been separated for at least 4,000 years B.P., whereas P. leucopus has a continuous distribution in the woodland habitats which surround these areas. Allozymic variability was lower in the isolated populations of P. attwateri than in the continuous populations of P. leucopus. Of 17 gene loci examined, six were polymorphic in P. attwateri, and nine were variable in P. leucopus. Results indicate that genetic similarities and differences among populations of P. attwateri are not affected by gene flow. Peromyscus leucopus shows increased interpopulational genetic variation, but there does not appear to be a relationship with geographic distance.
10.2307/3671986|The northern Santa Rita Mountains, a chain of low peaks rising to nearly 1,900 m, are situated northeast of the main body of the range, which extends nearly 1,000 m higher in elevation. The study area covered 260 km<sup>2</sup>, ranged from 1,006 to 1,918 m, and had a flora consisting of 628 native species of vascular plants. Floristic affinities were examined using an indirect Q-mode analysis of the distributions of the species in local floras from throughout the western United States. In the northern Santa Ritas flora, species with widespread distributions in the western United States have affinities with the Sonoran and Colorado Plateau floristic elements; those with more narrow distributions are allied primarily with the Apachian and Chihuahuan floristic elements.
10.2307/3671987|Interactions between two endemic species were studied at the Sierra de La Laguna, Baja California Sur, Mexico. Structural characteristics of the madrone (Arbutus peninsularis), such as crown cover and distribution of inflorescences within the crown, as well as flower availability were determined and related with frequency of visits and foraging time expended by the Xantus' hummingbird (Hylocharis xantusii). Our results show a relation between those crown sections of madrones where hummingbirds spend most of their foraging time and success in flower fertilization. It seems that madrones need hummingbirds to fulfill pollination and that flowers of madrones are almost the only nectar supply for H. xantusii during the critical late-winter months, so we suggest that these species are mutually dependent.
10.2307/3671529|Some sediments exposed in cutbanks of streams in canyons in northeastern New Mexico and adjacent Oklahoma are considered to be filled-in beaver ponds and associated fringing meadows. Exposures rich in mollusk remains yielded small but important late Pleistocene and Holocene faunas. Five localities, approximately 31,000 to 500 YBP, were sampled. We present our hypothesis for the genesis of the valley fills, and discuss the zoogeographic significance of Thomomys bottae, Sigmodon hispidus, Microtus ochrogaster, and Microtus pennsylvanicus.
10.2307/3671530|Seven species of parasites were collected from 21 Texas kangaroo rats (Dipodomys elator). A listrophorid mite (Geomylichus dipodomius), a louse (Fahrenholzia pinnata), a laelapid mite (Echinonyssus incomptis), and a chigger (Euschoengastia decipiens) were the most abundant species collected. Seven hispid pocket mice (Chaetodipus hispidus) were hosts of eight species of ectoparasites: G. inaequalis, F. zacatecae, Androlaelaps fahrenholzi, E. decipiens, and E. perognathi were the most abundant, while the three chiggers Cheladonta micheneri, Hyponeocula montanensis, and Odontacarus dentatus occurred less often. Five Perognathus flavus were parasitized by G. perognathus and E. decipiens. Ectoparasite communities of the three heteromyid rodents were quite different with only the habitatspecific chigger E. decipiens being common to all three species. The parasite communities of D. elator and P. flavus were most similar. Several new host and locality records of parasitic species are reported.
10.2307/3671531|Predatory behavior and habitat use were determined for Thamnophis cyrtopsis (blacknecked garter snake) along two desert strems in western Arizona as part of a more comprehensive survey by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management to determine habitat uses of vertebrates on public lands. Thamnophis cyrtopsis appeared to vary its feeding behavior and use of sites with corresponding changes in the availability of certain aquatic habitats, and distribution and abundance of prey. Feeding behaviors observed for T. cyrtopsis in this study suggest that this snake forages as a generalist. Snakes fed almost exclusively near, on, or immediately below the water surface; no active midwater-diving or bottom-crawling, behaviors employed by aquatic specialists, were used by T. cyrtopsis to capture prey. However, T. cyrtopsis has evolved behaviors that appear to enhance the use of seasonally variable, aquatic resources. These behaviors may explain how this snake has been able to thrive in highly variable, aquatic habitats within desert regions. In terms of distribution in the desert Southwest, T. cyrtopsis is an aquatic habitat specialist.
10.2307/3671532|Specimens of larval and early juvenile Etheostoma punctulatum from Murphy's Creek, Osage River drainage were examined with emphasis on meristic, morphometric, and pigmentary characteristics. Eggs, 1.2 to 1.5 mm in diameter, were found buried in gravel substrates. Larvae hatched at 4.9 to 5.2 mm total length and had 16 preanal and 17 or 18 postanal myomeres. Yolk-sac larvae possessed macro-melanophores which disappeared by 8.7 mm. The pigmentation pattern distinguishes them from other percid larvae. Aspects of the early life history are summarized and compared with literature accounts of other sympatric percid species.
10.2307/3671533|The nymphal growth and emergence of five stonefly species were determined by intensive sampling of leaf packs and mineral substrate in a riffle of a mountain stream in northern New Mexico. Isoperla fulva (n = 781) and Triznaka signata (n = 421) had late summer recruitment and slow univoltine life cycles, while nymphs of Prostoia besametsa (n = 2,009) were recruited in late fall and had a fast univoltine life cycle. Nymphs of Skwala parallela were apparently recruited in early summer or spring and were also univoltine. Classenia sabulosa had a semivoltine life cycle with nymphs recruited in late summer and early fall. Although they were of similar size at summer recruitment, nymphs of T. signata were generally smaller than those of I. fulva in fall and winter. Nymphs of P. besametsa grew rapidly during the coldest part of the year, achieving size equivalence with T. signata in December and February. The greatest nymphal growth rate was displayed by S. parallela; nymphs of this species reached 3.5 mm in head capsule width (HCW) by the end of the fall. Growth of C. sabulosa (which ultimately reaches 4-5 mm HCW) was much slower; this species required more than a single year of growth. Adult P. besametsa were first collected in April (n = 130) when they were most abundant; a few were also collected in May (n = 4) and June (n = 1). Skwala parallela adults (n = 13) were only collected in April. Adults of I. fulva (n = 37) were collected only during June, while those of T. signata were abundant in June (n = 22) and July (n = 33) with a single individual collected in August.
10.2307/3671534|Microgeographic genetic variation for 21 structural proteins was studied in two species of darters inhabiting the headwaters of the Saline River drainage in Arkansas. Populations of Etheostoma collettei were found to have significantly higher average heterozygosity and higher percent polymorphic loci than populations of Etheostoma whipplei. Analysis of population structure by Wright's F-statistics suggest that most of the genetic variation resides within populations and <10% resides between populations of either species of darter. Additional results suggest that headwater tributaries present little if any barrier to gene flow in these headwater fishes.
10.2307/3671535|Populations of Pinus edulis near Johnson Village, Colorado, lie on the altitudinal and geographic periphery of the pion range. The population studied exhibited two abnormalities in cone characteristics in 1984. Forty percent of the cones sampled were indehiscent, and delayed opening occurred in an additional 34.5% of the cones. Also, 58.3% of the full seeds and 77.8% of the empty seeds were enclosed in a two-toned testa, instead of the usual dark brown and light tan testa, respectively. Two-toned, full seeds were compared to full, dark seeds with respect to viability and their detection by small mammals. Two-toned full seeds have a lower percentage of lipids and were more difficult for small mammals to uncover in the area tested. The tightly closed cones retained seeds in a form which decreased predation by most genera of mammals in 1984.
10.2307/3671536|Of the six species of free-tailed bats from selected sites in northwestern Yucatan, Molossus sinaloae was taken most frequently, followed in order by Eumops glaucinus, Molossus ater, Eumops bonariensis, Promops centralis, and Tadarida laticaudata. Tile roof roost data for M. ater, M. sinaloae, and E. bonariensis showed some aggregation and, for the latter two, some roost fidelity.
10.2307/3671537|The influence of activity of red imported fire ants (Solenopsis invicta), as inferred from mound density, on free-ranging northern pygmy mice (Baiomys taylori) was examined in a grid-trapping experiment. In general, pygmy mice were expected to avoid areas of high mound density, but, relative to transient mice, residents were specifically hypothesized to prefer low mound density sites. Although high mound density appears to affect capture of pygmy mice, the effects are more subtle and complex than anticipated. The potential for negative impact by S. invicta on small-bodied mammals appears to be related to the seasonal activity patterns of the respective species and the extent to which these coincide.
10.2307/3671538|Morphologic variation in the Texas mouse, Peromyscus attwateri, from western and central Arkansas was evaluated using univariate and multivariate statistical analyses. Seventeen morphologic measurements (16 cranial, one external) were analyzed for specimens from 11 localities. All characters showed significant interlocality variation. A matrix of correlations among characters was computed, and the first three principal components were extracted. These components accounted for 77.7% of the total phenetic variance in the character set. Localities were projected onto the first three principal components. Component I (a size factor) showed that P. attwateri from the Ozark Plateau were, in general, larger than those from the Ouachita Mountains. Animals from localities that were geographically proximate seldom grouped as most similar. Size variation in P. attwateri appears best explained through multiple causation relating to an assemblage of ecologic and physiologic factors. Morphologic variation associated with principal components II and III could be taken to reflect adaptations for predation and feeding. Overall, it seems that, within heterogeneous habitat in Arkansas, selection acts to produce a morphologic form capable of exploiting local microhabitats rather than one associated with geographic distance between localities.
10.2307/3671539|Immunological relationships among four species of woodrats (Neotoma floridana, Neotoma micropus, Neotoma albigula, and Neotoma mexicana) are cladistically analyzed, using a Peromyscus outgroup. Within this group, N. micropus and N. floridana comprise an antigenically derived sister group, while N. mexicana retains the most primitive antigenic composition. Neotoma albigula is intermediate but appears more closely related to the N. micropus-N. floridana clade. These results are concordant with a consensus series of relationships proposed on the basis of morphology, karyology, and other biochemical data sets. This agreement supports the potential utility of immunoelectrophoresis as a systematic tool.
10.2307/3671540|El charalito sonorense, Gila ditaenia, fue incluido como especie amenazada en la lista de especies en peligro de extincin en 1986 por el United States Fish and Wildlife Service. Esta especie, endmica de la cuenca del Ro de la Concepcin cuya mayor parte se encuentra en Sonora, se distibuye en E. U. slo en Sycamore Creek cerca de Nogales, Arizona. Uno de los motivos para considerar a la especie dentro de la lista fue la incertidumbre que exista en cuanto a su estatus, distribucin y abundancia en Mxico. El uso de pesca elctrica cronometrada en 17 localidades y el muestreo con redes en ocho ambientes lnticos en Sonora, revelaron que el charalito se encuentra empliamente distribuido (16 de las 17 localidades con agua corriente) y es la especie ms abundante en biomasa, y con mayor frecuencia numrica. A pesar de haber encontrado siete especies exticas, los peces nativos dominaron en las comunidades de arroyo a lo largo de la cuenca (total en nmero = 99.7%, y biomasa = 96.9%), mientras que en los represos se encontraron peces exticos en su totalidad. El estatus de especie amenazada de extincin es apropiado si se considera slo a la poblacin perifrica y aislada geogrficamente que existe en Arizona, pero es evidente que hasta la fecha, la especie en general est relativamente segura. Las actividades de manejo recomendadas en un futuro prximo son: monitoreo peridico y anlisis taxonmico dirigido a las relaciones de la poblacin de Arizona hacia otros demos, y el grado de introgresin gentica con el charalito Yaqui G. purpurea, considerada por el United States Fish and Wildlife Service como especie en peligro de extinctin (1984). /// The Sonora chub, Gila ditaenia, was listed as threatened by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service in 1986. This species, endemic to the Ro de la Concepcin drainage, the major part of which is in Sonora, occurs in the United States only in Sycamore Creek near Nogales, Arizona. One of the motives for listing of the species as threatened was uncertainty regarding its status, distribution and abundance in Mxico. Use of timed electrofishing in 17 lotic sites and seining in eight lentic habitats in Sonora revealed that the chub is widely distributed (16 of 17 lotic sites) and is the most abundant species in biomass and, frequently, in terms of numbers as well. Despite finding seven exotic fish species, native fishes dominated stream collections throughout the basin (99.7% of total numbers; 96.9% of total biomass), while impoundments harbored totally exotic ichthyofaunas. Threatened status is appropriate for Sonora chub if only the peripheral and geographically isolated population in Arizona is considered; however, it is evident that the species in general is presently relatively secure. Recommended future management activities are periodic monitoring and taxonomic analysis directed at determination of relationship of the Arizona population to that of others and the extent of genetic introgression by the endangered Yaqui chub, Gila purpurea (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, 1984).
10.2307/3671541|Channel catfish were widely distributed in 517 km of the mainstream Green and 74 km of the lower Yampa rivers in 1987 and 1988. The fish was most abundant in rocky canyon habitats (average stream gradient >2 m/km), where adult fish comprised 14% of electrofishing and 70% of angling catch. Pectoral spine sections of 364 channel catfish of 27 to 756 mm total length ranged in age from 0 to 22 years respectively, with an average annual growth range of 17 to 53 mm. No difference in growth or condition factor was detected among catfish collected in eight river reaches. Growth of channel catfish in the Green River basin was judged slow in comparison to other areas of the United States and was attributed, in part, to cold water temperatures, short growing seasons, and elevated summer flow conditions. Channel catfish consumed a variety of food items, but piscivory was limited to larger fish (average length 420 mm). Of 575 stomachs with food (76.2%), 31% contained aquatic invertebrates, 28% contained vascular plant material, 22% contained terrestrial insects, 10% contained algae and detritus, and 8.5% contained fish and mice. The abundance, widespread distribution, and omnivorous feeding behavior of this introduced fish may affect populations of rare and endangered fishes in the Green River basin.
10.2307/3671542|An abundant and diverse vertebrate fauna including 15 taxa of small mammals has been recovered from the Wilson-Leonard archaeological site (41 WM 235), Williamson Co., Texas. Faunal remains are from a 4.5-m continuous stratigraphic section dating from over 9,000 YBP to <2,000 YBP. The presence of Microtus pinetorum-ochrogaster (pine vole-prairie vole), Oryzomys palustris (northern rice rat), and Blarina sp. (short-tailed shrew) in the sequence suggest moister conditions in central Texas during that time interval.
10.2307/3671937|I studied the age, growth, feeding, and behavior of Sacramento squawfish, Ptychocheilus grandis, in a small stream to provide basic life history information on this species in a habitat where it is often abundant. Young-of-year squawfish in Bear Creek grew throughout the summer and early fall. Mean back-calculated lengths of squawfish ranged from 65 mm SL (standard length) at age I to 257 mm SL at age IV. Mean back-calculated lengths varied among year-classes only at age I, with lengths varying from 55 mm SL for the 1979 year-class to 84 mm SL for the 1977 year-class. Bear Creek contained a large number of small mature fish (ages III and IV), but fish older than age IV were rare. Young squawfish (100 mm SL) consumed primarily insects and occasionally small fish. Fish became the dominant prey (>50% by weight) at a size of 100 to 150 mm SL. When squawfish were assigned to 50-mm size-classes, diet diversity calculated by size-class (proportions based on the summed contents of all individuals in the size group) was greatest for fish 51 to 100 mm SL. Individual diet diversities (proportions based on individual gut contents) did not vary among size-classes. Stomach fullness of squawfish 100 mm SL declined from May through December 1980. Individual diet diversity of fish 100 mm SL did not vary over the same time period. Large squawfish (100 to 500 mm SL) were sedentary and exhibited little movement within or between pools, during observations of summer, daytime behavior. Large squawfish did not interact aggressively with each other or with similar-sized Sacramento sucker, Catostomus occidentalis. A flexible pattern of growth of young-of-year, partitioning of food among life stages, and the sedentary, nonaggressive behavior of large squawfish all contribute to the success of the species in small streams.
10.2307/3671938|Roosting ecology of Brazilian free-tailed bats, Tadarida brasiliensis mexicana, was observed at two man-made roosts in Bell Co., Texas, from 1987 through 1988. Study objectives were to determine the pattern of roost usage, to determine the degree of local movement between the roosts, and to compare patterns of use of these and other artificial roosts with natural roosts. Seasonal fluctuations in numbers of bats at the roost sites were examined by assessing coverage of walls of the roosts, amount of guano produced, and analysis of mark-recapture data. Estimates obtained by the guano production and Schnabel methods were not significantly different. A mass exodus of female bats from the Belton roost occurred immediately before parturition, and a mass return of adult females and juveniles occurred after pups matured. Upon maturity of pups, sudden decreases in population size in maternity colonies have been reported that coincide with the sudden usage of previously unused roosts. The Salado roost is used by large numbers of bats primarily after the return of adult females and juveniles to the Belton roost and is speculated to serve as a "spill-over" roost for bats from the Belton roost. Movements of bats between the two roosts were documented.
10.2307/3671939|A brief physical description of the Central Depression of Chiapas, Mxico, and a list of the amphibian and reptilian species known to occur there are given. The 85 species are discussed relative to their occurrence within the Depression and to other physiographic regions of northwestern Nuclear Central America. The species are arranged into assemblages or a non-assemblage group for assessing their distributional patterns within Mesoamerica. The herpetofaunal elements found within the Central Depression are not distinct to that region but related to Gulf lowland areas of Mesoamerica and to the subhumid to semihumid Pacific versant of Mxico and northern Central America. The mostly subhumid Central Depression was probably more moist in the recent past (Pleistocene or early Holocene), as a few relict species occur in wetter localities. The Depression has been a dispersal route for dry-adapted species that moved primarily southeastward through Mesoamerica. The orogeny associated with the origin of the Depression (Oligocene through Pliocene) caused the formation of three vicariant highland areas that produced endemic species, some of which dispersed to other highland areas during environmental depression of the Pleistocene. Those species occur in two or all three highland areas today and probably dispersed through the extreme southeastern section of the Central Depression. The northeastern Sierra Madre de Chiapas and Central Plateau have never been continuous for highland species due to barriers formed by the deep entrenchments of the Northern Highlands. However, species that tolerate both highlands and lowlands have been (many still are) distributed continuously within the humid areas of the northwestern Sierra Madre, Northern High-lands, and Central Plateau. Those species used surrounding montane environments to effectively bypass the Central Depression. /// La Depresin Central de Chiapas en Mxico no tiene una herpetofauna caracterstica. La mayora de las especies son formas ampliamente distribudas por Mesoamrica que, como un sla unidad, se componen de miembros de diferentes grupos que tienen historia biogeogrphica diferente. Algunas son especies generalistas que habitan en medios ambientales variados y muchos otros son especies que estn relacionadas a los habitats subhumidos de la vertiente del Pacfico. Este ltimo grupo corresponde a la herpetofauna de las tierra bajas del oeste descrito por Savage (1982) como el grupo dominante de la Depresin. En realidad, las especies que estn relacionadas principalmente con la area subhumeda del Pacfico (grupo tropical subhmedo) contiene nicamente el 35% de las especies que ocurren dentro de la Depresin. Histricamente, la Depresin Central de Chiapas ha sido una ruta de dispersin para especies adaptadas a condiciones ridas que se han movido principalmente del noroeste al sureste a travs de Mesoamrica. La orogena asociada con el origen de la Depresin (Oligoceno hasta el Plioceno) es la responsable de la formacin de tres reas vicariantes en las tierras altas que han producido especies endmicas, algunas de stas se han dispersado hacia las otras tierras altas durante la depresin ambiental del Pleistoceno. Estas especies actualmente se encuentran en dos or tres de las tierras altas. Algunas especies, probablemente, usaron las tierras altas de sureste de las Depresin Central durante el episodio de dispersin. La parte noroeste de las Sierra Madre de Chiapas y la Meseta Central nunca han estado conectadas directamente en direccin esteoeste en lo que concierne a la distribucin de las herpetofauna de las tierras altas, dado que existen varias barreras geogrficas en las parte norte en las tierras altas de Chiapas (ejemplo, El Can del Sumidero). No obstante, especies que pueden vivir en tierras altas y bajas, se han distribudo, y muchas todava se encuentran distribudas contnuamente entre las reas hmedas del noreste de la Sierra Madre, Tierras Altas de Norte, y la Meseta Central. Por lo tanto, esas especies utilizaron los ambientes de tierras altas que rodean la Depresin Central, evitando en forma exitosa, cruzar la Depresin y reduciendo asi su efectividad como barrera para la dispersin.
10.2307/3671940|A shrubland, a woodland, and two grassland habitats were compared for populations of soil microarthropods in a semiarid watershed of New Mexico. Densities of grass rhizosphere microarthropods were generally higher, and some taxa like sminthurid collembolans were essentially limited to the grama grassland habitat. However, the rhizosphere fauna was also not quantitatively or qualitatively different from fauna of unvegetated soil or soil below the litter layer except in the grama grassland habitat. The similarity in microarthropod faunas in the soils of the four major habitats shows soil microarthropod assemblages are more a function of the organic matter content of the soil and the microclimate of the upper 10 cm than of the individual plant species.
10.2307/3671941|Colony size of Heterotermes aureus (Snyder) was investigated on the Santa Rita Experimental Range south of Tucson, Arizona. Data obtained using a mark-release-recapture technique and a trapping technique indicate that many colonies of H. aureus contain tens to hundreds of thousands of foragers. Mark-release-recapture estimates ranged from 45,000 to 300,000 foragers. As many as 100,000 foragers were removed from fiberboard traps at a given site over a 1.5-year period. The average foraging party consisted of 1,456 individuals, 8.6% of which were soldiers.
10.2307/3671942|Ictalurus lupus is widely distributed and moderately common in headwater and upstream sections of the Rio Grande, Pecos River, Rio San Fernando, Rio Soto la Marina, and the isolated Cuatro Cienegas basin. Museum collections identified as I. lupus from outside this described range are compared with electrophoretically identified specimens using a multivariate statistical analysis. Evidence suggests that I. lupus was at least historically present in the Colorado, Guadalupe, San Antonio, and Nueces rivers of Texas.
10.2307/3671943|The mean eggshell thickness of 11 eggs of bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) and 21 samples of eggshell fragments (n = 32) collected from 14 nests in Arizona during 1977 to 1985 was 0.539 mm, 8.8% thinner than the pre-1947 (pre-DDT) mean for eggs from southern California and Baja California, Mexico. Eleven eggs analyzed for contaminants contained slightly elevated concentrations of DDE (3.3 ppm wet weight) and mercury (0.14 ppm). Productivity of sampled pairs was low but improving. The predictive equations of Wiemeyer et al. (1984) were also verified.
10.2307/3671944|Twenty species of tardigrades were found in a study of Gunnison Co., Colorado. Twelve of these species had not been previously reported from Colorado. Five species are new records for North America. A new species of Diphascon is described.
10.2307/3671945|A new species of flea is described from the Sierra Madre del Sur in the state of Guerrero, Mxico. This is the third species of the genus Hystrichopsylla recorded from Mxico. The mammalian hosts of this new species are Peromyscus thomasi and Peromyscus megalops. /// Una nueva especie de pulga se describe de la Sierra Madre del Sur en el estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Esta es la tercera gnero Hystrichopsylla registrado para Mxico. Los hospederos mamferos de la nueva especie son Peromyscus thomasi y Peromyscus megalops.
10.2307/3671946|A new species of flea is described from the Sierra Madre del Sur in the state of Guerrero, Mxico, with specimens from the collection of the late Dr. Alfredo Barrera deposited in the Museo de Zoologa "Alfonso L. Herrera," Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mxico. The mammalian hosts are Peromyscus sp., Peromyscus megalops auritus, and Reithrodontomys sp. A brief discussion on the distribution of this genus is presented. /// Se describe una nueva especie de pulga de localidades en la Sierra Madre del Sur en el estado de Guerrero, Mxico, con especmenes de la coleccin "Alfredo Barrera," del Museo de Zoologa "Alfonso L. Herrera," Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mxico. Los hospederos mamferos son, Peromyscus sp., Peromyscus megalops auritus, y Reithrodontomys sp. Se discute brevemente la distribucin de este gnero.
10.2307/3671947|Interactions of two C<sub>3</sub> and two C<sub>4</sub> grasses with seedlings of Acacia smallii and Celtis laevigata were examined in the greenhouse. Each of four grasses tested inhibited growth of A. smallii and C. laevigata, with A. smallii reduced the most. Lolium perenne and Lolium temulentum, the C<sub>3</sub> grasses, and Bouteloua curtipendula, a C<sub>4</sub> grass, caused equal inhibition of A. smallii, while Bouteloua gracilis, a C<sub>4</sub> grass, had a lesser effect. Growth of A. smallii was consistently reduced by the grass with very little reciprocal growth reduction. Lolium temulentum caused the greatest inhibition of growth in C. laevigata followed by B. gracilis, B. curtipendula, and L. perenne. One C. laevigata seedling inhibited each of the grass species with the greatest effect on L. perenne and the least on L. temulentum, with reductions of both species of Bouteloua being equal and intermediate. Celtis laevigata appears to be an equal competitor with the grasses. At high grass densities, its growth was considerably reduced, but, at lower densities, C. laevigata inhibited the grasses. Both woody species would probably require vegetation gaps for establishment in grasslands.
10.2307/3671948|Post-disturbance survival, seedling recruitment, and height growth rates of 331 mapped Juniperus osteosperma and Pinus edulis were studied for 26 years within chained woodlands of central Utah. Size-specific attrition primarily occurred in the first 4 years (1962 to 1966) after chaining. Juniperus osteosperma was subsequently twice as prolific but showed a 10% net loss in numbers between 1962 and 1988, whereas P. edulis grew faster and apparently more uniformly in height while sustaining a 27% loss in density. Growth and survival of the two species were least similar in the seedling stage, apparently a key influence on population sizes and compositional ratios in the first decades of stand redevelopment.
10.2307/3671949|Seed dispersers and seed predators present a diverse array of benefits and risks to Cercidium microphyllum, a leguminous tree of the Sonoran Desert. Fruits mature and fall to the ground before the onset of summer rains. Seeds on the ground are rapidly collected by heteromyid rodents, but many are not consumed; these seeds may later germinate from buried caches. Approximately half of all newly emerged seedlings are in tight clusters that indicate an origin from caches. Not all seeds in a cache germinate simultaneously. Viable, ungerminated seeds associated with newly emerged seedlings face additional risks of discovery by heteromyids because of olfactory cues associated with emerging seedlings. Whereas heteromyids function to some degree as dispersers, bruchid beetles function only as seed predators. The hypothesis that heteromyids may hide seeds from bruchids by removing them from areas beneath parent trees was tested experimentally. Seeds retained in the tree canopy suffered almost complete destruction by bruchids. However, contrary to expectations, bruchids avoided ovipositing on seeds caged on the ground beneath parent trees. This avoidance may represent a behavioral adaptation in response to the normal rapid collection and burial of seeds by heteromyids.
10.2307/3672034|Herein we describe how members of a lizard community in southwestern New Mexico vary in their seasonal occurrence and utilization of habitat. Except for January 1984, one or more of the following 11 species of lizards were active during each of the 24 months of study (April 1983 through March 1985): greater earless (Cophosaurus texanus), zebra-tailed (Callisaurus draconoides), leopard (Gambelia wislizenii), desert spiny (Sceloporus magister), eastern fence (Sceloporus undulatus), side-blotched (Uta stansburiana), tree (Urosaurus ornatus), Texas horned (Phrynosoma cornutum), roundtailed horned (Phrynosoma modestum), desert-grassland whiptail (Cnemidophorus uniparens), western whiptail (Cnemidophorus tigris). Desert-scrub vegetation covered about 20% of the study area, with bare ground (i.e., soil, sand, gravel, or rocks) accounting for about 70%, and debris (i.e., sticks, limbs, and leaf litter) the remaining 10%. Lizard species segregated into two major habitat groupings, one composed of sites having relatively abundant cover and vegetation (e.g., sites occupied by S. magister, U. ornatus, U. stansburiana, and C. tigris) and the other characterized by more open sites (e.g., sites occupied by G. wislizenii, C. draconoides, P. modestum, and C. texanus). Species such as C. draconoides and G. wislizenii utilized microhabitats in roughly the same proportions as available. Other species such as S. magister and U. ornatus, the former found in association with nests of white-throated woodrats (Neotoma albigula) and the latter associated with trees or dense debris, were more selective. The present study, which provides useful information for formulating land management decisions, is one of the few to study a lizard community throughout all months of the year.
10.2307/3672035|Fifteen good condition upland grasslands of the Coastal Sand Plain were sampled for species frequency and foliage cover, and surface soil samples were analyzed for each stand. Seacoast bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium var. littoralis) was the prevailing dominant species. Gulfdune paspalum (Paspalum monostachyum) was a dominant species in swales and on moderately drained flats, and camphor daisy (Heterotheca subaxillaris) was important on dune oridges and on well-drained flats. Principal components analysis ordination confirmed the differences between stands on ridges versus swales, and thus two community types were distinguished. Species richness and the relative importance of forbs increase within the ridge community type. The relationship between grasslands of the Coastal Sand Plain and tallgrass communities (Coastal Prairie region) to the northeast is analogous to the relationship between the Nebraska Sandhills and tallgrass communities (True Prairie region) to the east. Both the Sandhills and Sand Plain occupy drier climates than regions to the east, but the sandy substrate and increased effective precipitation allow the development of structurally similar grasslands. The Sand Plain shares the same prevailing dominant species (seacoast bluestem, a variety of little bluestem) with the Coastal Prairie. However, the region is so edaphically, floristically, and ecologically distinctive that it cannot be considered a southwestern extension of the tallgrass continuum that extends from Canada to the gulf coast of North America.
10.2307/3672036|Population responses of desert playa organisms were examined following two separate rain storms (spring and late summer-fall) that flooded a playa and stock tank located in southern New Mexico. Invertebrate species that appeared following both floods included the crustaceans Streptocephalus texanus, Thamnocephalus platyurus, Eulimnadia texana, Triops longicaudatus, Moina wierzejskii and the rotifers Brachionus sp., Polyarthra sp., and Pedalia sp. Moina wierzejskii produced three generations during the single spring flood while other species produced a single generation. Initial population levels for all species were very high. Fairy shrimp levels decreased quickly, and population levels of Moina wierzejskii were depressed until levels of all other species were low. Arthropod species did not produce large numbers of drought-resistant eggs in response to the lowering of the water level. Tadpoles of two species of anurans, the spadefoot toad (Scaphiopus multiplacatus) and the true toad (Bufo cognatus) occurred in the playa following spring flooding. Tadpoles of Bufo cognatus were not collected after the late summer rain. Tadpoles, particularly spadefoot toads, preyed on other tadpoles and fairy shrimp (Anostraca). Apparently, both biotic and abiotic factors were important in the population dynamics of playa organisms. Biotic interactions appeared more important during the second flood when the population densities of most species were higher.
10.2307/3672037|In spring and summer 1987, we made 12 fish collections at four sites in the watershed of Crutcho Creek, a heavily urbanized stream within the Oklahoma City metropolitan area, and eight collections at four sites on the North Canadian River in and near Oklahoma City. Seventeen species were collected from the creek sites, and 30 species from the river sites. The fauna in these areas included most of the species typical of streams throughout central Oklahoma. Life stages from young-of-year to reproductive adults were present for numerous species. Despite the urbanization of the area, these streams have a viable and relatively diverse native fish fauna similar in species richness and composition to fish assemblages in similar-sized rural streams elsewhere in central Oklahoma.
10.2307/3672038|Growth experiments were conducted in a greenhouse with seedlings of Prosopis glandulosa Torr. (honey mesquite) and Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers. (bermuda grass). Effects of density and time of planting of C. dactylon on growth of P. glandulosa were examined. When one seedling of P. glandulosa was grown with two or more C. dactylon in an additive experiment, aboveground, belowground, and total dry weight of P. glandulosa decreased 84, 71, and 79% respectively. Root: shoot ratios for P. glandulosa increased almost four times from lowest to highest density of C. dactylon. Conversely, P. glandulosa caused a significant reduction in dry weight of C. dactylon but mainly in the lowest grass densities. When P. glandulosa was planted with C. dactylon at the same time, dry weight of P. glandulosa was reduced 83%. If P. glandulosa was planted 2 months after C. dactylon was planted, dry weight of P. glandulosa was reduced 96%. Although P. glandulosa had a negative effect on C. dactylon, the negative effect only occurred when the density of C. dactylon was low or they were planted at the same time. Greenhouse studies suggest that P. glandulosa competes almost equally with C. dactylon, unless there is a large difference in density or a temporal difference in planting. In the field, early growth and establishment of P. glandulosa may require reduced herbaceous plant density or vegetation gaps.
10.2307/3672039|Six foraging and four recruitment parameters were examined and compared among the exotic Solenopsis invicta Buren and the native Texas ants Pheidole dentata Mayr, Forelius foetidus (Buckley), and Monomorium minimum (Buckley). Assays were conducted in the laboratory with interspecific interactions excluded. Two of the three native species, F. foetidus and P. dentata, were superior in overall foraging ability compared to S. invicta when the number of individuals per colony was equal. The foraging strategies utilized by these four species are elucidated and discussed from a time-efficiency and interaction perspective for each of the six foraging parameters. A unique myrmicary design for maintaining ants while studying their particular foraging strategies is also described.
10.2307/3672040|The sucrose composition of floral nectars of two populations of Ipomopsis longiflora were sampled in El Paso Co., Texas. One was sampled in 1987, and the other in 1989. The percentage of sucrose varied significantly between sample days in both populations. Further, the mean percentage of sucrose differed significantly between the two populations. All measures of temperature during the growing season tested were found to be significantly correlated with changes in sucrose composition of the nectars. However, mean daily maximum temperature during the week preceding sampling was the best predictor of sucrose composition. A test for equality of slopes of the regressions of the two populations showed no significant difference. Thus, it appears that both populations in 2 different years responded in the same way to temperature.
10.2307/3672041|Spawning and movements of the razorback sucker, Xyrauchen texanus, were evaluated by radiotelemetry (n = 17 fish) and capture of 230 adults (105 recaptures) in the Green and Yampa rivers, 1987 to 1989. Ripe fish (n = 194) were captured in riffles with cobble, gravel, and sand substrates from mid-April to early June. Recaptured males were ripe from 2 to 28 days and recaptured females from 2 to 15 days. Razorback suckers spawned during ascending and highest spring flows at water temperatures of about 14C (range of 9 to 17C). Spawning migrations of 30 to 106 km were detected in 17 razorback suckers, but movements were more limited or undetected in other individuals. Flooded lowlands and lower portions of tributary streams presumably served as resting-feeding areas for razorback suckers during the breeding season. Native flannelmouth sucker (Catostomus latipinnis), bluehead sucker (Catostomus discobolus), and putative flannelmouth  razorback sucker hybrids in breeding condition were collected with ripe razorback suckers. Razorback sucker is in peril due to a paucity of spawning adults, hybridization with other suckers, little or no recruitment, and habitat loss.
10.2307/3672042|Evaluating plants and soils on unreclaimed surface mines helps land managers understand the effects of minesoil properties on plant growth and community development and may aid in the development of current reclamation plans. Eight unreclaimed surface mined sites in east-central Texas, ranging in age from 3 months to 50 years, were sampled to evaluate vegetation and minesoil changes over time and for comparison to an adjacent unmined area. Three- and 6-month-old unreclaimed areas had about 1% plant cover composed of pioneer grass and forb genera, including Dichanthelium, Aster, Chenopodium, and Polygonum. Herbaceous plant cover increased from 12% on the 5-year-old site to a peak of 25% on the 20-year-old site. Dominant genera on 10- to 20-year-old sites were Andropogon, Bothriochloa, Cynodon, Dichanthelium, Paspalum, Aster, and Rumex. Woody species established as early as 5 years after mining (predominantly Baccharis salicina T. et G.), and canopy cover reached 14 and 35% on the 20- and 30-year-old sites, respectively. On the 50-year-old site, 17 woody species formed a multilayered vegetation structure with > 100% cover. Bulk density of minesoils in the surface 12 cm declined with time from 1.30 to < 1.00 <tex-math>$\text{Mg}/\text{m}^{3}$</tex-math> as vegetation and litter increased. Undisturbed soils had an average pH of 5.9. Minesoil pH decreased from 6.9 on 3- and 6-month-old sites to 3.8 on 5- to 30-year-old sites (due to pyrite oxidation) and increased to 6.8 on the 50-year-old site. Several grass and forb species found on acidic minesoils in this study may be good candidates for low input revegetation programs for other postmining land uses.
10.2307/3672043|Presence-absence data for the terrestrial reptiles of Texas were explored using cluster analysis and detrended reciprocal averaging. Cluster analysis produced seven regions which were geographically consistent, and biologically explicable. These regions corresponded closely to the bio-geographic provinces previously proposed on the basis of a subjective analysis of the Texas fauna. Ordination analysis was used to examine the groupings produced by the cluster analysis for consistency and intercluster relationships. The results of the cluster analysis were, in general, substantiated by the ordination procedure. Overlap of the clusters on the ordination axes were interpreted to be due to zones of transition between regions characterized by distinct terrestrial reptilian communities. Differences between this interpretation and those resulting from similar studies are discussed.
10.2307/3672110|Sample adequacy for estimating aboveground biomass in the Flint Hills (Kansas) tallgrass prairie was determined by using a combination of jackknifing and Monte Carlo simulations. Based on this analysis, we concluded that 14 and 16 <tex-math>$0.1\text{-m}^{2}$</tex-math> (20 by 50 cm) quadrats should be harvested in burned and unburned sites, respectively, when estimating total, live graminoid and previous years dead biomass. However, 20 quadrats should be harvested to detect at least a 20% difference in production between sites due to treatments such as fire. Due to high variability in forb biomass, other measurements (cover or density) may be more appropriate for detecting fire effects on this group of plants.
10.2307/3672111|Spikedace, Meda fulgida, used habitat in several southwestern desert streams in proportion to availability of habitat types. Velocity of water occupied by spikedace did not increase with increased stream size. Schools of >10 spikedace frequented deeper (mean 27 cm) and slower-moving (<25 cm/s) waters characterized by eddying currents and shear zones often associated with stream gradient adjustments. Comparison of habitat used by spikedace both with that described in the literature and that measured in one southwestern stream for the introduced red shiner, Notropis lutrensis, suggests habitat partitioning may occur when these two cyprinids co-occur in a stream.
10.2307/3672112|Three species of chipmunks, Tamias minimus, Tamias quadrivittatus and Tamias umbrinus, were studied on the eastern slope of the Front Range in Boulder and Larimer counties, Colorado. Tamias quadrivittatus and T. umbrinus are similar in size and appearance and are parapatric in distribution. The line of parapatry was found to occur at an elevation of 2,130 m in the study area, which is a revision of the 2,440 m previously reported in the literature. Tamias minimus differs in appearance and ecology from its two congeners and occurs sympatrically with them over a broad range of elevations and habitats. Overwinter survival rates for the populations are less than one third, and local population extinction or near-extinction is a common occurrence. Univariate and multivariate morphometric analyses are presented, as are electrophoretic comparisons of the three species. The three may be clearly diagnosed by a number of characters; no evidence of hybridization exists, although Front Range populations of T. umbrinus converge toward T. quadrivittatus in electrophoretic profile, as compared to other populations of the two species that are not in geographic contact. Analysis of sonagrams of the common vocalizations of the three species also shows that each has unique features. Possible mechanisms for the maintenance of parapatry are discussed.
10.2307/3672113|Allozymic variation was analyzed for populations of seven taxa comprising five cytotypes of the Geomys chromosome complex in Texas. The genetic relationships of taxa from the central Texas Edwards Plateau, Geomys bursarius llanensis and G. b. texensis, were compared to G. b. major, Geomys knoxjonesi, Geomys attwateri, Geomys personatus, and Geomys breviceps. Geomys from the Edwards Plateau had from two to six fixed allelic differences with the other taxa. Isolation of the Edwards Plateau taxa precludes contact-zone analysis. Nevertheless, genetic differentiation is typical of that between other species of Geomys, and the Edwards Plateau taxa should be recognized as Geomys texensis. Phenetic analysis of genetic similarity among the six taxa indicated that G. texensis is most similar to G. knoxjonesi. Cladistic analyses indicated G. texensis is a sister taxon to G. bursarius. A vicariance model of speciation of G. texensis is supported by paleoecological data.
10.2307/3672114|Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii Parry)-corkbark fir (Abies lasiocarpa var. arizonica (Merriam) Lemmon) forests in southeastern Arizona are found only in the "sky island" of the Pinaleno Mountains at elevations >2,800 m. They cover limited area but many stands are old-growth. Recovery to old-growth status after disturbance requires >300 years for high-elevation sites on gently sloping terrain and follows a sequence of: 1) spruce colonization; 2) reduction in further recruitment of all species; and 3) abundant recruitment of corkbark fir and spruce 80 to 150 years after initial colonization. On steeper, lower elevation sites, spruce or Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii var. glauca (Beissn.) Franco) is the colonizing species. Stand development is slower in this zone, and corkbark fir does not establish until 150 to 250 years after initial colonization.
10.2307/3672115|A study was conducted during 1984 and 1985, coinciding to a large extent with the cotton-growing season, to determine the arthropod fauna harbored by weeping lovegrass, Eragrostis curvula (Schrader) Nees von Esenbeck. Results from whole plant and D-vac sampling indicate that the majority of arthropods harbored by weeping lovegrass belong to the orders Acarina, Araneae, Hymenoptera, and Thysanoptera, and, of these orders, the thrips (Thysanoptera) represented the majority of specimens collected. In 1985, not less than 15 species of thrips were collected, and Oedaleothrips hookeri Hood and Haplothrips graminis Hood were the most common. One species collected that may be a pest of cotton was the western flower thrips, Frankliniella occidentalis (Pergande). However, this species comprised only 10.8% of the thrips identified to species. Although little is known of the biology of the remaining thrips, they are not considered to be serious economic pests. Therefore, our results indicate that weeping lovegrass will not detrimentally affect the agro-ecosystem on the Texas High Plains and that this grass may even have a beneficial effect on the arthropod fauna associated with cotton.
10.2307/3672116|Vegetation on upland sites in southern New Mexico is represented by a mosaic pattern composed of scattered mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa) plants and associated understory plants, interspersed in open herbland composed of various grasses and forbs. Bush muhly (Muhlenbergia porteri) was the main grass species occurring under mesquite canopies. Purslane portulaca (Portulaca oleracea) was the only forb species showing a positive correlation with mesquite canopy cover. Abundance of other grass and forb species was greater at the mesquite periphery or in the open areas than under the mesquite canopies. Black grama (Bouteloua eriopoda) was distributed in open herbland between trees.
10.2307/3672117|Seasonal changes in the histology of testes and ovaries were studied in Cryptobranchus alleganiensis from Niangua River, Missouri. Spermatogenesis occurred in summer. Vitellogenic activity was greatest from May to mid-September. Breeding occurred in late September. Spermatogonia occupied the testicular lobules from October through June. Interstitial cells were most evident after breeding. Follicular atresia was evident in females that had retained mature ovarian oocytes after the breeding period. Yolk elements of atretic follicles were phagocytized by cells of the follicular epithelium.
10.2307/3672118|We assessed the distribution of desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus crooki) relative to abundance of plant species in Big Bend National Park (BBNP), Texas, from June 1972 to December 1981. We also evaluated the relation of spring rainfall on the percentage of fawns in the herd. We correlated relative deer abundance with plant, forage, and succulent plant (Cactaceae and Agave sp.) densities. Differences in percentage fawns in the herd were related to spring rainfall and were attributed to the nutritional plane of reproducing does. Spring droughts are common in BBNP and contribute to maintaining numbers of deer at or below carrying capacity when predation by mountain lions (Felis concolor) is significant. Distribution and productivity of desert mule deer inhabiting arid environments may be significantly influenced by density-independent factors including plant density and rainfall.
10.2307/3672119|The phenology and ecology of Cienfuegosia intermedia Fryxell (Malvaceae) was investigated in north-central Mexico, and the plant was evaluated as a host plant of the boll weevil, Anthonomus grandis Boheman (Coleoptera: Curculionidae). Cienfuegosia intermedia was found in an arid, scrub habitat above 950 m elevation in the state of San Luis Potos, Mexico. This species is a procumbent herbaceous perennial which rapidly flowers and fruits after sporadic seasonal rains. The large rootstock of C. intermedia is resistant to drought, burning and grazing, which allows the plant to survive in the heavily grazed and disturbed habitat where it is found. Field and laboratory results strongly suggest that C. intermedia is not a host plant for the boll weevil. No boll weevils were found associated with C. intermedia in the field over a 2-year period. Adult females rarely oviposited in C. intermedia buds in the laboratory, and boll weevil immatures, manually implanted as eggs in buds, did not reach imago. /// Se estudi la fenologa y ecologa de Cienfuegosia intermedia Fryxell (Malvaceae) y se evalu su potencial como planta hospedera del picudo de algodonero, Anthonomus grandis Boheman (Coleoptera: Curculionidae). Cienfuegosia intermedia ocurre en un area de matorral xerofito sobre 950 m snm en San Luis Potos, Mexico. La planta es una hierba perenne procumbente la cual florece y fructifica rpidamente despus de las espordicas lluvias de la regin. La raz principal de C. intermedia es resistente a la sequia, al fuego y al pastoreo lo cual permite que la planta sobreviva bajo dichas condiciones de estres. Los resultados de campo y de laboratorio indican que C. intermedia no es una planta hospedera de A. grandis. No se encontr ningn picudo asociado con C. intermedia durante 2 aos de estudio en el campo. En el laboratorio, las hembras de A. grandis raramente ovipositaron en los botones de C. intermedia. Adems, cuando se implantaron huevecillos del picudo en los botones estos nunca alcanzaron el estado adulto.
10.2307/3672120|Field studies of the house mouse, Mus domesticus, in Campeche, Mexico, provided data on habitats, reproductive biology, home range, refuge sites, and other aspects of its behavior. Among habitats sampled, the highest population density was recorded in a recently abandoned cornfield; the species was absent or nearly so in forests and uncommon in fields not used for grain crops for several years. Home range characteristics resembled those reported for various species of deer mice, Peromyscus, in temperature regions of North America. In May, all males weighing 12 g or more had scrotal testes, and approximately 20% of all females carried embryos detectable by palpation. There was a large number of double captures (17), most of which (14) consisted of a male and a female, suggesting these mice were foraging in pairs. House mice at this site may have had access to more refuge sites than did larger species of rodents.
10.2307/3672121|We censused rodents, counted ant colonies, and measured vegetative structure along 11 pairs of transects at a Chihuahuan Desert study site in southeastern Arizona. One member of each pair of transects was inside and one was outside of a 20-ha livestock exclosure that had been in place for 11 years. Vegetative structure did not differ between transects exposed to or protected from cattle grazing, but significantly more rodents were captured inside the exclosure. However, only a subset of the rodent species present, primarily Dipodomys, were negatively affected by the presence of cattle. Ant colonies were equally abundant on transects inside and outside of the exclosure, indicating that ants are more resistant than rodents to trampling and potential competition for food with cattle.
10.2307/3672122|The vertebrate fauna (667 specimens, 34 taxa) in 27 woodrat (Neotoma sp.) middens dated at 32,000 to 1,150 YBP from Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, Pima Co., Arizona, was analyzed for patterns. Specimens were from small vertebrates; reptiles and small mammals were better represented than amphibians or birds. The elements appear to be randomly incorporated into the middens temporally, except for fecal pellets of Neotoma sp. and occasionally scales of Sceloporus sp. Vertebrate specimens were less common in middens than arthropod remains but easier to identify; plant remains were more common than both. Animals identified from middens may not be associated with the local paleoflora because raptorial birds may transport prey from lowlands to mountain rockshelters. Gerrhonotus kingi, Onychomys cf. leucogaster, and Tamias sp. in Wisconsin and early Holocene woodland samples no longer occur in the Monument.
10.2307/3672123|Relative frequency of occurrence and abundance of shorebirds were monitored at a 23.2-ha fish hatchery in a prairie region of extreme northwestern Arkansas from March 1981 through May 1988. Twenty-five species of shorebirds occurred during most springs. The most frequently observed shorebird species were killdeer, lesser yellowlegs, common snipe, and spotted, semipalmated, least, white-rumped, and pectoral sandpipers. Twenty-three species occurred during fall migration; killdeer, least and pectoral sandpipers, and common snipe were observed most frequently. Killdeer (the only breeding shorebird), least sandpiper, and common snipe also wintered at the hatchery. Spring migration occurred over a shorter period than did fall migration, and more unusual shorebirds occurred during spring. Most trans-Atlantic fall migrants observed commonly in spring were rare or absent during fall migration (e.g., lesser golden-plover, Hudsonian godwit, and white-rumped sandpiper). Western sandpipers showed the opposite trend, being rare in spring and more common in fall. Both patterns are consistent with an elliptical, clockwise migration route for many migratory shorebirds in North America. This study demonstrates the importance of relatively small bodies of water to migrating shorebirds on the Great Plains and the potential for managing such areas to maximize use by shorebirds. Determining species of shorebirds that will use such secondary sites and the timing of migration at those sites will become increasingly important in future conservation efforts if primary stop-over sites deteriorate.
10.2307/3671915|Adult Gambusia prey on young Gambusia in experimental chambers much less than suggested in the existing literature. Approximately half of the young confined in aquaria with an adult survive a 30-day experimental interval. Most of the predation is by females and some species such as Gambusia gaigei are far more predacious than others. The Big Bend population of Gambusia affinis is much less predacious on young Gambusia than are other species of Gambusia.
10.2307/3671916|Late winter food habits, diel feeding chronologies, and resource partitioning are documented for two cyprinids, the Virgin River spinedace (Lepidomeda mollispinis mollispinis, a threatened endemic) and the widely distributed speckled dace (Rhinichthys osculus), in Beaver Dam Wash, a stream of the eastern Mojave Desert. Adults of both species were primarily insectivorous; larvae of the stratiomyid Euparyphus and larvae of Hydropsyche were consistently among the most important food items in the stomachs of both fish species. Adult ephemeropterans and trichopterans were also important in the stomachs of L. mollispinis, whereas ephemeropteran nymphs and ostracods were important in the diet of R. osculus. The percentage composition of the stomach contents of R. osculus resembled the composition of the drift and benthos more than the percentage composition of the stomach contents of L. mollispinis. Overlap between the species in the composition of the stomach contents varied through the diel period. The diel feeding chronologies of the species were different, suggesting temporal partitioning: L. mollispinis fed continuously during the day, R. osculus fed in the morning and in the evening.
10.2307/3671917|Drift fences were used to live-trap snakes over a 4-year period in three habitats of a 32.2-ha forest preserve in northeastern Texas. The upland deciduous woodland had the most species (17 with 99 individuals) and the highest species diversity, but the lowland floodplain had the greatest number of snakes (15 species, 142 individuals). The upland coniferous woodland had the fewest snakes and the lowest species diversity (10 species, 72 individuals). The southern copperhead, Agkistrodon contortrix, was the dominant species in both upland habitats, and the western cottonmouth, Agkistrodon piscivorus, was the most abundant snake in the lowland habitat. The lowland floodplain had six species restricted to that habitat, the upland deciduous woodland had two, but no species were found only in the upland pine area. The Texas rat snake, Elaphe obsoleta, was the first species captured in the spring. Agkistrodon contortrix and the eastern coachwhip, Masticophis flagellum, were abundant in mid-summer. and Agkistrodon piscivorus was numerous in the fall. Agkistrodon contortrix was most abundant in the rocky upland deciduous woodland in the spring and increased its numbers in the other habitats in mid-summer. Elaphe showed the greatest habitat niche width, whereas A. piscivorus had the narrowest. The greatest niche overlap occurred between M. flagellum and E. obsoleta, whereas the least overlap was between M. flagellum and A. piscivorus.
10.2307/3671918|A small Pleistocene, probably Irvingtonian, fauna collected near Curtis, Oklahoma, has yielded the first record of Nothrotheriops from Oklahoma. Examination of previously known and new specimens shows that all well-documented Rancholabrean records of this genus occur in the mountainous areas of western North America. Definite Irvingtonian occurrences span the continent from the San Francisco area and northwestern Mexico through the Great Plains to Florida. This change in distribution may have resulted from an increasingly variable late Pleistocene climate that restricted Nothrotheriops to areas where it could respond by altitudinal migration and by utilizing cave environments as thermal buffers. Continuing reduction of its range could have resulted in small disjunct mountain populations that finally succumbed to the climatic extremes of the terminal Pleistocene or hunting by paleoindians.
10.2307/3671919|The Rio Grande of northern New Mexico historically supported at least 16 native freshwater fish species. Of these, four cyprinids (speckled chub, Hybopsis aestivalis; Rio Grande shiner, Notropis jemezanus; phantom shiner, Notropis orca; Rio Grande bluntnose shiner, Notropis simus simus) have been extirpated and a fifth (Rio Grande silvery minnow, Hybognathus amarus) appears to be declining in both range and abundance. Based on collections in 1984, the ichthyofauna of this region consists of at least 21 species, 13 of which were introduced. Non-native forms were primarily ictalurids and centrarchids. Native cyprinids numerically dominated the samples from 1984, accounting for 75% of the specimens taken. Nine species, five native and four introduced, were collected in the largest New Mexican tributary of the Rio Grande, the Rio Chama. Recently-discovered stocking information from the late 1920s suggests that mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis) is not native to the upper Rio Grande.
10.2307/3671920|The identification of specimens of Brassica collected in Texas has proven difficult owing to a lack of published keys and descriptions and to the confusion of Brassica species with the related genus Rapistrum. The present study discusses the features that distinguish these genera and provides keys and descriptions for the seven species of Brassica and one species of Rapistrum recorded from the state. Brassica tournefortii is documented from Texas for the first time.
10.2307/3671921|A new species of Astragalus (Leguminosae: Astragalanae) from southeastern New Mexico is described. The new species is related to Astragalus knightii Barneby (A. sect. Cusickiani) and also shares characteristics with Astragalus quinqueflorus (A. sect. Quinqueflorus) of central Chihuahua, Mexico. This new species of Astragalus may be a link between southern members of A. sect. Quinqueflori and members of A. sect. Cusickiani, of the homaloboid astragali.
10.2307/3671922|Collections of fishes from the lower Rio Grande (Ro Bravo del Norte) during the past 138 years suggest two indigenous faunal assemblages. One fauna is upstream, composed of mostly freshwater species, and the other is a downstream assemblage composed of a mixture of the more abundant upstream elements and more estuarine species. Recent collections in the lower Rio Grande indicate that major alterations in these fish communities have occurred. The upstream fauna has lost many of its characteristic freshwater components; native freshwater species have been replaced by exotic (=non-native) or estuarine forms. The downstream fauna has many fewer freshwater taxa with replacement by estuarine and marine species. These faunal changes appear to be correlated with decreasing stream flows, the proliferation of exotic species, and increases in chemical pollution. Unfortunately, these factors are expected to pose even greater threats to the fishes of the Rio Grande in the future.
10.2307/3671923|Freeze damage to native woody plants was assessed at the same four sites in the lower Rio Grande Valley, Texas, in 1983 and 1989. The number of severely damaged species was greater in 1989 possibly because temperatures in 1989 were lower and longer in duration below freezing versus 1983. Thirty0five species (48.6%) had the same damage index value for the two freezes, and 24 (33.3%) species showed no damage in either year. More than half of the 72 species analyzed (55.5% in 1983 and 51.3% in 1989) showed no damage or only leaf damage, indicating most of the native woody species are well adapted to survive periodic freezes. In 1989, Avicennia germinans, Cordia boissieri, Leucaena pulverulenta, Karwinskia humboldtiana, and Pithecellobium pallens included individuals killed to their bases. Heights of some of the L. pulverulenta exceeded 10 m. All species showed evidence of recovery by spring 1990.
10.2307/3671924|Increment cores from 144 Fremont cottonwoods (Populus fremontii var. wislizeni) were taken at three riparian woodland sites along the Rio Grande in New Mexico. Trees at two study sites averaged 38.8 and 43.2 years old. All trees fewer than 26 years old at those sites were root suckers from older trees whose primary trunks had decayed. The third site, one of few known locations where young trees are present, had 75% of the trees between 5 and 25 years old. Cottonwood recruitment generally (but not always) could be associated with years of overbank flooding. The combination of a paucity of cottonwood regeneration over the last 30 years, the rapid colonization during this century of Russian-olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia) and salt cedar (Tamarix chinensis) into the valley, and current river channel management practices suggests that the Rio Grande riparian woodland will become dominated by the exotic shrubs over the next 50 to 100 years. To assure the continued survival of the cottonwood riparian community along the Rio Grande, resource managers need to implement strategies to enhance cottonwood regeneration and survival and to control the spread of exotics.
10.2307/3671925|The Rio Grande silvery minnow (Hybognathus amarus) was formerly one of the most widespread and abundant species in the Rio Grande basin of New Mexico, Texas, and Mexico, but recent surveys indicated that its current range has been much reduced. In the Pecos River, New Mexico, H. amarus had declined by 1968, coincident with establishment of non-native plains minnow (Hybognathus placitus). Hybridization and competition with H. placitus were probable mechanisms of extirpation of H. amarus from the Pecos River. In the lower Rio Grande, Texas, downstream of the Pecos River, extirpation of H. amarus around 1961 was probably related to construction and operation of Amistad Reservoir and introduction of non-native fishes. Local populations of H. amarus (e.g., Rio Grande near Big Bend, Texas) were considered extirpated just after 1960. Hybognathus amarus survives only in New Mexico in 5% of its original range from Cochiti Reservoir downstream to Elephant Butte Reservoir. Conservation measures are necessary as continued habitat and flow modifications, introduction of non-native fishes, and lack of refugia threaten survival of H. amarus.
10.2307/3671677|In Utah's Uinta Basin, 21 species of raptors resided on or visited Oil Shale Tracts Ua-Ub from 1975 to 1985. As food resources change, especially certain rodent species and desert cottontails (Sylvilagus audubonii), synchronous changes occur in golden eagles (Aquila chrysaetos), northern harriers (Circus cyaneus), red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis), American kestrels (Falco sparverius), and loggerhead shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus). Suitable nest sites appear to be in excess, and there are no obvious effects of weather on populations. Fluctuations in territory size and density indicate competition has a minimal effect on populations. We conclude that opportunistic response to food resources is responsible for changes in the abundance of raptors.
10.2307/3671678|We describe physical habitat and aquatic biota of a relatively undisturbed canyon reach of the Purgatoire River and its tributaries in southeastern Colorado. Flow regimes are highly variable due to unpredictable, brief, intense summer floods. River habitat consists of long, deep, silty pools with few large boulders separated by short cobble riffles, whereas tributaries contain isolated pools maintained by groundwater. Water chemistry and temperatures were within ranges tolerable by plains stream fishes at all sites. Benthic macroinvertebrate assemblages included representatives of four regional faunas. At lotic sites, a few taxa of two detritus-collecting functional groups predominated. The fish fauna is depauperate, consisting of only 11 native species which we divided into river, perennial stream, and generalist faunal associations. However, most fishes have generalized habitat, trophic, and reproductive requirements, which seem to adapt them to survive the harsh environmental conditions in this plains stream. Although the four species that made up 95% of individuals generally persisted at river sites over the 5- to 7-year period sampled, the abundance of red shiners declined markedly from 1983 to 1987 despite favorable flow regimes.
10.2307/3671679|Individuals from the Chisos Mountains, Texas, a population containing Juniperus erythrocarpa Cory, Juniperus pinchotii Sudw. and putative hybrids, were compared to J. erythrocarpa from west of Alpine, Texas, and J. pinchotii from northeast of Marathon, Texas, using morphological and terpenoid characters. Numerical analyses included weighted hybrid indices and principal coordinate analysis. These analyses were complementary in showing hybridization between J. pinchotii and J. erythrocarpa in the Chisos Basin population. The populations of J. erythrocarpa from west of Alpine and J. pinchotii northeast of Marathon were found to contain a few individuals intermediate in their chemistry and morphology, suggesting introgression.
10.2307/3671680|Eighty-two plant and 26 small vertebrate taxa were identified from four radiocarbon dated woodrat (Neotoma sp.) midden samples from a rock crevice at 655 m elevation on Picacho Peak, Pinal Co., Arizona. A late Wisconsin (11,100 to 13,170 YBP) pinyon-juniper-oak woodland dominated by Pinus monophylla (singleleaf pinyon) and Juniperus cf. osteosperma (Utah juniper) and J. erythrocarpa/monosperma (redberry/oneseed juniper) shifted to a more xeric juniper-oak woodland/chaparral in the early Holocene (9,420 to 10,280 YBP). Extralocal species that no longer live on Picacho Peak were 29.9% in the late Wisconsin and 20.1% in the early Holocene with the greatest changes in longlived trees, shrubs, and succulents. The biogeographic and taxonomic significance of Scaphiopus hammondi (western spadefoot) and the ecological adaptability of Phrynosoma platyrhinos (desert horned lizard), Micranthe whitneyi (elf owl), and Neotoma cf. albigula (white-throated woodrat) are discussed. All taxa in the vertebrate fauna are widespread in desertscrub and desert-grassland, still occur in the area, and enter woodlands only at the upper or northern edges of their ranges. The typical inhabitation of woodlands by these vertebrates and anomalous associations in the flora probably reflect the expansion of equable climates that now characterize ecotonal habitats during the late Wisconsin glacial.
10.2307/3671681|Calls were recorded from 11 female and nine male Palmer's chipmunks (Tamias palmeri) from Charleston Peak, Nevada. Recorded types of calls of T. palmeri included chucks, chippering, and chips. Characters of the chip vocalization are reported. Palmer's chipmunk had maximum frequencies that ranged from 10.4 to 12.9 kHz. Minimum frequency at onset ranged from 2.0 to 3.3 kHz, and terminal frequency from 3.8 to 4.3 kHz. Call rate varied from five to 17 calls/5 s of recording time. Females called with significantly higher maximum frequency (12.25 kHz) than males (10.82kHz). No significant differences were found between sexes for other parameters. Data suggest that differences between male and female calls are not due to size or weight.
10.2307/3671682|Body condition of nonbreeding gadwalls (Anas strepera) in southwestern Louisiana was estimated from hunter-killed birds from 1985 to 1989 to determine chronology of establishment of lipid reserve and relationships among body condition, environmental variables, and disturbance from hunting. The most significant increases in lipid reserves occurred when hunting was suspended, which implied that hunting affected establishment of lipids. Daily low temperatures also were closely correlated with lipid reserves, suggesting that covariants of temperature (e.g., food availability, food quality, density of shelter vegetation) affected lipid establishment as well. Several alternative hypotheses are proposed to explain results, which provide direction for future studies.
10.2307/3671683|Nearctic Plecoptera inhabit well-oxygenated, usually, permanent mountain streams, exhibit low vagility and possess distributions which can be excellent indicators of environmental changes which took place during the Pleistocene. Present distribution patterns of Nearctic stoneflies in the Sierra de San Pedro Martir of Baja California and the Sierra Madre Occidental and Sierra Madre Oriental of mainland Mexico can be attributed to the pluvial environments of the Pleistocene when suitable habitats were much more extensive. The Nearctic stonefly fauna of Baja California is an extension of that fauna found in the southwestern United States, especially California. In the past, stoneflies were able to cross the discontinuity between the southern Rocky Mountains and the Sierra Madre Occidental and disperse into northern, central and southern Mexico. Only one Nearctic species is known from the Sierra Madre Oriental. Previously, four Nearctic stoneflies had been reported from Mexico, all Amphinemura Ris species. After extensive collecting in the states of Baja California, Chihuahua, and Sonora, we have found 21 additional species in 11 general from six families. The Amphinemura venusta complex contains six Mexican endemics (three undescribed). /// Los plecopteros nearticos habitan en los arroyos de las montanas. Estos arroyos deben de estar libre de contaminacion, bien oxigenados y permanentes. Ademas muestran baja vagilidad y son indicadores excelentes de ambientes pasados. Los patrones de distribucion actual de los plecopteros nearticos en la Sierra de San Pedro Martir, la Sierra Madre Occidental y la Sierra Madre Oriental se atribuyen a los ambientes pluviales del pleistoceno cuando la habitacion adecuada solia extenderse por muchas partes. La fauna neartical de plecopteros de Baja California es una extension de la fauna que se encuentra en el sur del estado de California. Los plecopteros cruzaron la discontinuidad que existe entre las Montanas Rocosas del Sur y la Sierra Madre Occidental y se dispersaron hacia el interior de Mexico. De la Sierra Madre Oriental solamente una especie es reconocida. La fauna neartica de plecopteros de Mexico que se registraron en la literatura fue previamente limitada a solo cuatro especies en el genero Amphinemura, pero despues de hacer estudios extensivos en los estados de Baja California, Sonora y Chihuahua, ahora se conocen veintiuno especies en once generos de seis familias. El complejo Amphinemura venusta contiene seis especies (tres no nombradas) que son endemicas a Mexico.
10.2307/3671684|Movements, roosting activities, and home-range characteristics of adult and subadult male Merriam's wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo merriami) were studied in south-central Colorado during spring 1986, 1988, and 1989. Adult males moved 5.3  3.8 (SD) km from winter ranges to spring breeding areas and had an average harmonic mean spring home range size of <tex-math>$5.2\pm 3.3\ \text{km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Subadult males moved farther (8.7  3.1 km, P = 0.03) and occupied larger (<tex-math>$12.3\pm 4.9\ \text{km}^{2}$</tex-math>, P < 0.01) harmonic mean home ranges than adults. Minimum convex polygon home ranges for both age classes were > 100% larger (P < 0.01) than harmonic mean home ranges. The median distance between morning and evening roosts used on the same day was 996 m for subadults and 1,074 m for adults. Median distances between consecutive roost sites increased during the hunting season compared to preseason and postseason periods. Subadults returned to the same roosts more often (29%) than adults (19%). Departure and roosting times during the hunting season indicated shooting hours should start at sunrise and end 0.5 h before sunset to discourage roost shooting and promote ethical hunting practices.
10.2307/3672139|Electrophoretic and morphologic variation was examined among two populations of Dipodomys merriami from Baja California, one population of Dipodomys nitratoides from southern California, and Dipodomys insularis from San Jos Island, Baja California. Analysis of allozyme variation resulted in a mean genetic distance of 0.07 among the two populations of D. merriami and D. insularis. Analyses of morphologic variation among these populations indicated that D. insularis is distinct from populations of D. merriami and D. nitratoides using bacular, cranial, and external characters. Although D. insularis is geographically isolated and is statistically significantly different in several morphologic characters from D. merriami, we recommend placement of D. insularis as a subspecies of D. merriami based upon their allozymic similarities and because other species of Dipodomys exhibit similar degrees of intraspecific geographic variation in morphologic characters.
10.2307/3672140|The effect of Taylor Draw Dam on the movements and distribution of flannelmouth suckers (Catostomus latipinnis) in the White River, Colorado, was investigated during 1983 to 1985. During this period, 198 fish of 3,391 fish tagged were recaptured. Recapture data collected during the summers of 1983 and 1984 were used to determine movement while the river was still free-flowing and then compared to the recapture information gathered in 1985, after impoundment. Before completion of the dam, in most areas, the local population of flannelmouth suckers was mobile rather than sedentary, and movements were random (non-directed). Fish 300 to 400 mm in total length moved more than larger fish. Larger sexually mature fish appeared to establish smaller home ranges. Following closure of the dam, flannelmouth suckers above the reservoir basin and in the tailrace were more active and their movements directed. In the tailrace, fish movement was directed upstream toward, but not to, the dam. Fish congregated in a river reach 2 to 4 km below the dam. After impoundment, fish previously tagged above the reservoir were often recaptured below the dam, suggesting that the dam blocked their return to a "preferred area."
10.2307/3672141|Contraband Bayou and Bayou d'Inde are two highly degraded waterways draining into the Calcasieu Estuary of southwestern Louisiana. Both bayous are affected by municipal wastes, and Bayou d'Inde receives additional effluents from a large petrochemical complex. Fish-kills occur frequently in both bayous, and the fish faunas of both are highly depauperate compared to those of more pristine waterways. Bayou d'Inde has many fewer species than Contraband Bayou. Poecilia latipinna is abundant in both waterways. We investigated the life history of P. latipinna to determine whether the added stresses present in Bayou d'Inde would be reflected in this population. There were no significant differences in population sizes, sizes of individuals, or fecundity of females. Poecilia latipinna in these two bayous had life-history trends similar to those of Gambusia affinis in southwestern Louisiana. Both species showed fast growth early in the year, and females reproducing in the summer and fall of the year in which they were born produced significantly fewer propagules than did females that over-wintered.
10.2307/3672142|The germination rate of seeds from two local populations of Salicornia bigelovii Torr. are evaluated. Seed samples were obtained from Sonora and Baja California Sur, Mxico, and were germinated under various salinity concentrations of diluted sea water. The seeds from Sonora germinated at a faster rate than the ones from Baja California. Highest percentage of germination was obtained under non-saline water conditions together with a considerable reduction in germination as concentrations were increased; germination rates were reduced considerably when salinity concentrations were increased for both populations. No statistical differences were found between the mean values of germination after the nineteenth day of the experiment for both ecotypes. A positive correlation was found between low levels of salinity (9 ppm of total dissolved solids) with total length and dry matter of seedlings. It is concluded that salinity levels which are equal to or higher than 18 ppm (50% of sea water) inhibit and reduce the germination rate of both populations. These results explain the high emergence of seedlings found in field conditions just after the rainy season occurs. /// En este trabajo se evala la tasa de germinacin de semillas de dos poblaciones de Salicornia bigelovii Torr. provenientes de Sonora y Baja California Sur, Mxico. Las semillas fueron sometidas a un gradiente de salinidad obtenido a partir de diluciones de agua marina. El germoplasma de Sonora present germinacin ms rpida que el de Baja California Sur. El porcentaje de germinacin ms elevado para ambas poblaciones tuvo lugar bajo condiciones de agua destilada y decreci con el aumento de salinidad. La comparacin entre medias (DMS) muestra que a los 19 das de siembra la germinacin es estadsticamente igual para ambos casos. Concentraciones bajas de salinidad (9 ppm de slidos disueltos totales) tuvieron un efecto positivo sobre la longitud de plntulas y la acumulacin de materia seca. Se concluye para ambas poblaciones, que la salinidad igual o mayor a 18 ppm (50% de agua marina) retarda e inhibe la germinacin, lo cual explica la mayor emergencia de plntulas en el campo inmediatamente despus de la poca de lluvias.
10.2307/3672143|Specimens of larval and early juvenile Percina macrolepida from Eagle Mountain Lake, Trinity River drainage, were examined with emphasis on meristic, morphometric, and pigmentary characteristics. Adhesive eggs, 1.1 to 1.4 mm in diameter, were found attached to stems or leaves of aquatic macrophytes. Larvae hatched at 4.9 mm total length and had between 22 and 26 preanal and 17 to 20 postanal myomeres. In these characteristics, the bigscale logperch resembles other members of the darter subgenus Percina. Aspects of the early life history are summarized and compared with literature accounts of other sympatric percid species.
10.2307/3672144|Aspects of the nutrient dynamics of the drought-deciduous shrub ocotillo (Fouquieria splendens) were studied in the foothills of the Organ Mountains in southern New Mexico. The movement of eight elements (nitrogen, phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, copper, iron, zinc, manganese) into or out of senescing leaves was measured. Although the efficiency of nitrogen resorption was predicted to be high (60 to 80%), it was not significantly different from zero. Data generated in this study led to the hypothesis that low foliar zinc was responsible for inefficient nitrogen resorption. The foundation of this linkage may be related to the role zinc plays as an integral component of proteinases and peptidases.
10.2307/3672145|I examined the seasonal and diurnal xylem pressure potentials of natural hybrids between two species of pinyon pine in Arizona, Pinus californiarum and Pinus edulis. The parent species differ mainly in the number of needles per fascicle (one versus two) and the seasonal distribution of precipitation characterizing their ranges. The hybrid trees have both single and double needles. Fewer needles per fascicle results in a reduction in the needle surface-to-volume ratio, which has been hypothesized to reduce the transpiration rate. In this study, I tested the hypothesis that single-needle fasicles can maintain higher midday xylem pressure potentials during times of water stress. A 2-year field study showed no significant differences between single and double needles. Needle morphology does not affect water relations, or the relatively high precipitation during the study did not allow significant water stress to occur.
10.2307/3672146|Small prescribed fires were replicated on an ungrazed semidesert shrub-grassland in southeastern Arizona. Plant densities and shrub heights were measured and compared to unburned plots in one pre-burn and two post-burn growing seasons. Grass and herb densities were reduced by the fires for 1 year not for 2 years. Densities of the shrub Mimosa were reduced by fire for 1 (Mimosa dysocarpa) or 2 (Mimosa biuncifera) years. Maximum heights of the shrubs Mimosa and Baccharis were reduced by fire for 2 years. These fires, set in the natural fire season on a site ungrazed and unburned for 15 years, appear to have caused no irreversible changes in vegetation. However, this study demonstrates the minor adjustments that this ecosystem makes to fire, and these could have a long-term cumulative effect on the structure of semidesert shrub-grassland communities.
10.2307/3672147|The mammals of the Carrol Creek local fauna, radiocarbon dated at 32,400  560 YBP, were found in a late Pleistocene (Middle Wisconsin, Rancholabrean Land Mammal Age) deposit in Donley Co., Texas. Thirteen of 17 taxa were at least tentatively identified to species. Neofiber leonardi, Synaptomys australis, Mammuthus columbi, and Equus sp. are extinct. Sorex arcticus and Microtus pennsylvanicus now occur far from the fossil site. The remaining taxa are typical prairie forms living near the fossil site today. Carrol Creek is the southernmost record of S. arcticus, and N. leonardi is herein documented during the latest Pleistocene. The association of S. arcticus, N. leonardi, and S. australis are recorded together for the first time and suggest a mesic environment and an equable climate.
10.2307/3672148|Behavior of redheads (Aythya americana) during winter was studied on the hypersaline lower Laguna Madre and adjacent freshwater to brackish water ponds of southern Texas. On Laguna Madre, feeding (46%) and sleeping (37%) were the most common behaviors. Redheads fed more during early morning (64%) than during the rest of the day (40%); feeding activity was negatively correlated with temperature. Redheads fed more often by dipping (58%) than by tipping (25%), diving (16%), or gleaning (0.1%). Water depth was least where they fed by dipping (16 cm), greatest where diving (75 cm), and intermediate where tipping (26 cm). Feeding sequences averaged 5.3 s for dipping, 8.1 s for tipping, and 19.2 s for diving. Redheads usually were present on freshwater to brackish water ponds adjacent to Laguna Madre only during daylight hours, and use of those areas declined as winter progressed. Sleeping (75%) was the most frequent behavior at ponds, followed by preening (10%), swimming (10%), and feeding (0.4%). Because redheads fed almost exclusively on shoalgrass while dipping and tipping in shallow water and shoalgrass meadows have declined in the lower Laguna Madre, proper management of the remaining shoalgrass habitat is necessary to ensure that this area remains the major wintering area for redheads.
10.2307/3672149|We measured vegetation cover and bird abundances on 25 native and 25 exotic grassland plots in southeastern Arizona between 1984 and 1990. A wildfire in 1987 completely burned 11 native and 11 exotic plots. The fire reduced grass and shrub cover, and increased herb cover, for 2 post-fire years in both grassland types. Numbers of fall birds increased dramatically on burned plots in both habitats for 2 years, probably in response to increased seed production and availability. Dominant species attracted to the burn were mourning dove (Zenaida macroura), horned lark (Eremophila alpestris), vesper sparrow (Pooecetes gramineus), and savannah sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis). Summer bird species responded to the fire in ways consistent with their general habitat associations. Species attracted to the burned sites for 2 or 3 years were mourning dove, horned lark, and lark sparrow (Chondestes grammacus). Species avoiding burned plots were grasshopper sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum), Botteri's sparrow (Aimophila botterii), Cassin's sparrow (Aimophila cassinii), and eastern meadowlark (Sturnella magna). Fire effects were ephemeral in both native and exotic habitats for most plants and birds, and there was no evidence that burning facilitated permanent return of native species to depauperate plantations of exotic grasses. However, fire may have rendered exotic grasslands more suitable to certain summer birds by reducing otherwise heavy accumulations of litter.
10.2307/3671658|Late Quaternary arthropods were studied from a latitudinal transect of 19 woodrat midden sites in the northern Chihuahuan Desert of Trans-Pecos Texas and southern New Mexico. The samples range in age from >43,300 YBP to recent and yielded a series of assemblages comprising 101 taxa of insects, arachnids, and millipedes. Assemblages ranging from >43,300 to 12,500 YBP were dominated by temperate species, giving way to a mixture of xeric and temperate species in the early Holocene. After 2,500 YBP, only desert species were identified. The paleobotanical and insect records generally agree, and the combination of the two data sets provides valuable indications of late Quaternary environments. The insect record suggests that the glacial-post glacial transition occurred around 12,500 YBP. While the principal botanical change, the disappearance of pinyon pine, occurred between about 11,000 and 10,250 YBP, there are other paleobotanical indications of change at 12,500 YBP.
10.2307/3671659|Gila trout, Oncorhynchus gilae, formerly occurred in suitable habitat in much of the Gila River drainage, New Mexico and Arizona, but, when described in 1950, it was restricted to a few remote headwater streams in New Mexico. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 and New Mexico Wildlife Conservation Act of 1974 afforded some protection and provided impetus for efforts to conserve the species. In the past 20 years, conservation efforts focused mainly on establishing additional populations. Success of recovery efforts has been mixed. Prior to 1989, 11 populations (five relictual and six re-established) existed. Natural events in 1988 and 1989 eliminated one population and severely reduced two others. A fourth population (natural) may be contaminated with genes of Oncorhynchus mykiss and its replicate therefore may be impure. Successful conservation of O. gilae will require continued protection and enhancement of extant populations, re-establishment of the species in large drainages rather than small headwater streams, and modification of traditional recovery strategies.
10.2307/3671660|A new species of diplocentrid scorpion is described from the Mexican states of Jalisco, Nayarit, Sinaloa, and Sonora. This represents the first record of Diplocentrus from the western side of the Sierra Madre Occidental. The new species is compared to several taxa in central and southern Mexico as well as to the species in Baja California del Sur. Some brief comments on the generic position of the latter species are given.
10.2307/3671661|The wolf spider, Pardosa valens, displayed distinct "sit-and-wait" predatory behaviors during interactions with the smaller, congeneric prey, Pardosa distincta, in experimental chambers. Adult female P. valens, from which the egg cases had been removed, more frequently captured and attempted to capture prey and had the highest value for a measure of speed or efficiency of capture. Females without egg cases exhibited higher frequencies for those behaviors that were components of the orientation, approach, and capture sequence observed during interactions. The greater frequencies of predatory behaviors displayed by these reproductively mature wolf spiders are predictable for a terrestrial arthropod in a high-elevation, seasonally extreme environment, where energy allocated to a large number of small eggs may be the best strategy.
10.2307/3671662|Byrd's Mill Creek is a 12.5-km long, first- to third-order, spring-fed stream draining the Arbuckle Mountains in south-central Oklahoma. We surveyed the fishes in this tributary from the source to its confluence with Clear Boggy Creek from July 1985 to July 1987. Thirty seining collections, made systematically at six stations over five consecutive seasons, plus seven additional collections, resulted in the capture of over 6,000 specimens representing 32 species. Numerically dominant groups included cyprinids (13 species), centrarchids (nine species plus hybrids), and percids (three species). Distinct longitudinal zonation was evident, but species assemblages differed as much or more within as between adjacent stream orders. Thus, factors such as habitat structure and physiocochemical tolerance rather than stream order were suggested as being more important in regulating the distribution of fishes within the stream. Seasonal stability of assemblage structure was relatively high both within stations and throughout the stream. Distribution of individual species generally coincided with their known habitat affinities; however, some interesting patterns were noted. Downstream from a fish farm, hybrid sunfish were common, darters were virtually absent, and grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) were present. A fish kill at one of the stations, due to the release of brine from a nearby oil field, had little apparent effect on assemblage structure based on a comparison of pre- and post-spill similarity indices. During the entire sampling period, Byrd's Mill Creek exhibited characteristics of overall faunal stability.
10.2307/3671663|Seventy-eight taxa of diatoms were identified from the epiphytic community of Cladophora glomerata in the Colorado River through Glen and Grand Canyons. Achnanthes affinis, Cocconeis pediculus, Diatoma vulgare, and Rhoicosphenia curvata made up 80% of the diatom epiphyton community within 15 km of Glen Canyon Dam, Arizona. However, these taxa made up only 33% of the periphyton community 354 km downstream. Mean total diatom density associated with Cladophora glomerata was significantly reduced at each sequential station downstream. Diatom density decreased and community composition of diatoms changed with increasing water depth in the river channel. Cell densities of D. vulgare, C. pediculus, and R. curvata decreased markedly at Lees Ferry following a 3-month period of fluctuating flow during October through December 1985.
10.2307/3671664|Populations of Gambusia affinis were sampled monthly from September 1985 to August 1986 in two bayous draining into the Calcasieu Estuary of southwestern Louisiana. The two waterways are very different environments. Choupique Bayou is relatively pristine, drains farmland and forest, and supports a rich fish fauna. Contraband Bayou receives runoff and treated sewage effluents from the City of Lake Charles and has a depauperate fish fauna. In each population, we studied growth and foods of individuals and brood size of females. Despite the striking environmental differences in the two bayous, life histories in the two populations were quite similar. In both populations, foods most frequently found in stomachs were surface prey and detritus. Larger females ate more and higher quality foods than did males and smaller females. Females reproducing in late summer and fall had significantly smaller broods than females reproducing in spring and early summer. Two differences in population parameters between the bayous were that the population in Choupique Bayou was smaller than the population in Contraband Bayou and that an average individual from Choupique Bayou grew to a smaller size than one from Contraband Bayou. These two differences may be due to the heavier predation pressure in Choupique Bayou.
10.2307/3671665|Se describe a travs de un ciclo anual los hbitos alimenticios de la trucha arcoiris, Oncorhynchus mykiss nelsoni, en el Arroyo San Rafael, Sierra San Pedro Mrtir, Baja California, Mxico, en relacin a la composicin, diversidad, y tamao de presas en la dieta. El anlisis cualitativo y cuantitativo del contenido estomacal de 192 truchas indica una dieta basicamente insectvora, dominada en un 90% por cuatro tipos de presas (Simuliidae, Sericostomatidae, Hydropsychidae, e Hydroptilidae), demostrando una estrategia depredativa selectiva, en el tipo y tamao de presa consumida. La dieta de la trucha difiere significativamente entre las tallas menores de 55 mm longitud patrn y aquellas mayores de 125 mm longitud patrn. Asimismo, su dieta (todas las clases talla combinadas) cambia estacionalmente, siendo ms evidente durante invierno y primavera. La diversidad trfica por individuo fue similar a travs del ao, como tambin entre las clases talla, sin embargo, el tamao promedio de presa por estmago difiere significativamente con la talla de la trucha. Una significativa relacin fue registrada entre el tamao promedio de presa y el tamao de boca de la trucha, ya sea considerando el promedio de todas las presas por estmago, como tambin para cada una de las presas ms importantes en la dieta. /// Seasonal feeding habits of the rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss nelsoni, from Arroyo San Rafael, Sierra San Pedro Mrtir, Baja California, Mxico, were studied throughout 1 year in relation to the composition, diversity, size, and proportion of prey items in diet. Qualitative and quantitative analyses of 192 stomach contents indicate basically an insectivorous diet, dominated (90%) by four prey types (Simuliidae, Sericostomatidae, Hydropsychidae, and Hydroptilidae), showing a selective trophic strategy with regard to prey type and size consumed. Significant differences in diet were seen among size classes, mainly between the smallest (<55 mm standard length) and largest (>125 mm standard length) classes. In addition, changes in the diet (all size classes combined) occurred year-round and were more evident during winter and spring. Individual trophic diversity was similar year-round as well as among the size classes; however, the average prey size differed significantly with the size of fish. A significant relationship was seen between average prey size and trout mouth width, both for the average size of all prey items combined per stomach and for each of the most important prey items in the diet.
10.2307/3671666|Mass fish mortalities have occurred in the Pecos River in Texas since 1985. These mortalities are associated with blooms of the golden alga Prymnesium parvum. We analyzed the repopulation by fishes following the 1986 kill of 99+% of all fishes in the Pecos River between Iraan and Amistad Reservoir (250 stream km). During the initial post-kill interval, the fishes inhabiting freshwater tributaries became abundant in the river mainstem. Subsequently, their abundance declined coincidentally with increases in abundance of fishes previously inhabiting the river. The red shiner, Cyprinella lutrensis, comprised about 75% of all fishes in the river 1 year after the fish kill. We found substantial evidence of population instability 18 months after the kill.
10.2307/3671667|Grand Canyon National Park, Arizona, hosts the largest nesting population of peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus anatum) on a single land management unit in the contiguous United States. Twenty-eight occupied breeding areas were identified in 1988 in approximately 15% of the park area; 58 occupied breeding areas were identified in 1989 in approximately 24% of the park. Of the 153 occupied breeding areas known for Arizona from 1988 to 1990, 71 (46.4%) were located in the park. Mean distances between centers of breeding areas on the South Rim, North Rim, and Colorado River were 5.6 linear km, 8.0 linear km, and 6.8 river km, respectively. These findings suggest that this endangered species is approaching full recovery in northwestern Arizona.
10.2307/3671862|Chromosome numbers, chromosomal nucleolar organizer region (NOR) phenotypes, and genome sizes (DNA contents) were documented for all nominal members of the North American cyprinid genus Dionda inhabiting Texas and New Mexico. All examined taxa, including four members of the Dionda episcopa complex (D. episcopa, D. argentosa, D. serena, and an undescribed species inhabiting the Colorado and Guadalupe river drainages in Texas) and D. diaboli, possessed 2n = 50 chromosomes, with a single pair of NOR-bearing chromosomes. In each, the chromosomal NOR was located terminally on the short arm of a small-sized acrocentric chromosome. All of the NOR chromosomes appeared to be homologous in trypsin G-banding pattern. Mean genome sizes ranged from 1.94 picograms (pg) of DNA in D. serena from the Nueces River to 2.09 pg of DNA in D. argentosa from Baker's Crossing in the Devils River. Divergence in genome size among nearly all of the samples of Dionda was less than that maximally observed, on average, between individuals within populations of most North American fishes. Collectively, the chromosomal NOR and genome size data suggest that the taxonomic status of Dionda inhabiting Texas and New Mexico may warrant further investigation.
10.2307/3671863|Claytonia lanceolata Pursh var. peirsonii (Portulaceae) is a rare corm bearing perennial herb restricted to five localities along the eastern crest of the San Gabriel Mountains. It is a Forest Service sensitive taxon and assigned the highest level of endangerment by the California Native Plant Society. All known populations of C. lanceolata var. peirsonii were investigated by starch-gel enzyme electrophoresis for amount and distribution of genetic variation. Nineteen enzymatic loci were interpreted. The genetic identity values obtained are consistent with values obtained from conspecific populations of other plant species. However, the presence of private alleles indicates restricted gene flow between populations. We infer that pollinating agents and seed dispersal agents are organisms with limited ranges. The results indicate that the taxon is outcrossing and that mating is random within populations. The high genetic polymorphism observed supports the hypothesis that the present geographical disjunction between the variety and C. lanceolata var. lanceolata is a result of climatic change isolating the former in remnant habitat in the San Gabriel Mountains. Information on the distribution of genetic variability will aid in-situ species enhancement efforts and long-term management of species.
10.2307/3671864|The newly erupted upper premolar (P4) of Dipodomys shows an arrangement of cusps that is distinctive in five species studied. The cusps swiftly wear away to leave the tooth as a column of radial enamel and dentine. The pulp cavity of P4 is elongated and vestigial roots may form in some species. The Miocene ancestor of the Dipodomyinae may have been a species of Cupidinimus. The direct ancestor of Dipodomys was a Blancan species of Prodipodomys. Nine extinct species of Prodipodomys have been named but only two extinct Dipodomys. Two cusp patterns occur in the P4 of Prodipodomys: the 8-pattern and C-pattern. Dipodomys elator is probably descendent from a species with the 8-pattern and D. ordii, D. compactus, D. spectabilis and D. merriami from a species with the C-pattern. Dipodomys is thus a diphyletic genus. D. ordii and D. compactus have distinct hypocones on P4, and well developed postentostyle valleys. In D. spectabilis and D. merriami, the hypocone is folded back against the posterior cingulum, and the postentostyle valley is obsolete or absent.
10.2307/3671865|Large quantities of non-alpine insects are blown episodically onto some alpine tundras. These events may have return intervals as short as 3 years in Colorado. Windblown depositions of a moth (Loxstege cerareoles, Pyralidae) from one episodic event were analyzed to determine the possible influx of soluble nutrients to the alpine tundra. Ten chemicals were identified in or on the insect bodies. Significant external additions of soluble phosphorus and potassium occurred to the alpine, but additions of soluble nitrogen were probably not significant. Phosphorus additions may represent a relatively new input source emanating from contamination by fertilizers used on alfalfa crops on the Great Plains. Potassium inputs may originate in the soils of the Great Plains and may increase buffering capacity in the poorly buffered tundra soils of the Colorado Front Range.
10.2307/3671866|In the coastal desert of Sonora, Mexico, two species of elephant trees (genus Bursera, Burseraceae) produce bird-dispersed fruit in contrasting patterns. Bursera hindsiana produces fruits that are eaten by a variety of birds. In contrast, B. microphylla produces fruits that are primarily eaten by only two species of bird. One of these species, the gray vireo (Vireo vicinior), is unusual among migratory birds that become primarily frugivorous in the winter because individual vireos are territorial within and between winters and the vireos' frugivorous diet consists almost entirely of fruit of B. microphylla. A possible mutualistic relationship between gray vireos and B. microphylla may explain the high degree of overlap between the winter range of the bird and the geographic distribution of the plant.
10.2307/3671867|Recent collections made throughout the historic range of Dionda diaboli (Devils River minnow) in the United States showed a decline in the range and relative abundance of this species. In the few remaining places where D. diaboli was found, its population size typically comprised <1% of the fish community. Also, a general reduction in relative abundance of species associated with flowing-water environments was evident while those species associated with more lentic habitats appeared to be increasing in number.
10.2307/3671868|We studied body condition, food habits, and molt status of late-wintering ruddy ducks (Oxyura jamaicensis) using drainwater evaporation ponds in the southern San Joaquin Valley, California. Levels of body fat and protein were similar by sex but varied by age (adults greater than immatures). Masses of breast and leg muscle protein were greatest in adult males and lowest in immature males, but similar in adult and immature females. Fat and protein levels in late-wintering ruddy ducks were independent of their body size. We detected no differences among sex-age classes in the proportion of animal foods consumed. Aquatic invertebrates composed >85% of the diet; midge larvae (Diptera: Chironomidae) and brine flies (Diptera: Ephydridae) were the principal taxa consumed. Molt score by feather region and overall molt score did not vary by sex or age. Light to moderate molt (<25 to 50% molting feathers) was recorded in all feather regions. High levels of body fat and protein were attributed to premigratory hyperphagia and consumption of foods with a high protein:energy ratio.
10.2307/3671869|In the Chihuahuan desert, the distribution of the poikilohydric resurrection plant, Selaginella lepidophylla (Hook. and Grev.) Spring. (Selaginellaceae, spikemoss family), is restricted by aspect and the presence of other vascular plants. Few individuals are found on south-facing slopes, and the density of S. lepidophylla is highly correlated with the cosine of aspect. Multiple linear regression demonstrated that a four-variable model best explained changes in the density of S. lepidophylla on north-facing slopes, with total cover of other plants being the most important variable. Abiotic parameters may indirectly restrict S. lepidophylla by controlling the presence of other vascular plants. A five-variable regression model showed that rock cover was the most important factor explaining changes in other vascular plant cover. Selaginella lepidophylla appears to be a colonizer, and its distribution may be limited by effects of high temperature and competition with vascular plants for light or soil resources.
10.2307/3671870|An endemic insular subspecies of the black-tailed jackrabbit (Lepus californicus sheldoni) was studied on Isla Carmen in the Gulf of California. The compositions of plants in the diet and the habitat were determined by fecal analyses and plant quadrat analyses, respectively. The evolution of the Carmen Island black-tailed jackrabbit seemingly has been influenced by a depauperate biota, low primary productivity, a long dry season, and low precipitation. These jackrabbits are smaller in size and utilize more of the available plants for food than mainland jackrabbits. Three species of shrubs and three cacti were found to comprise 87% of the diet. On Isla Carmen, the severe intensity of browsing by jackrabbits coupled with the low diversity of available food items has contributed to and is partly responsible for maintaining the structure of the vegetational community.
10.2307/3671871|During 1987, soil samples were collected before (August) and after (October) the first dove hunting season near a stocktank in Eddy Co., New Mexico. Lead shot were recovered from 54% of 120 soil samples (30.5 by 30.5 by 1.3 cm deep) collected in August (181 shot) and from 68% of 120 soil samples collected in October (929 shot). These data provided estimates of 167,593 and 860,185 lead shot/ha in the upper 1.3 cm of soil for August and October, respectively. Examination of gizzards collected from 420 mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) during 1985, 1986, and 1987 revealed that only one had ingested lead shot. Analyses of livers of 250 doves revealed that nine (3.6%) contained concentrations of lead >7 ppm wet weight (range of 8 to 257). Though large amounts of lead were available for ingestion, doves had a low incidence of lead consumption.
10.2307/3671872|Snakes, primarily gopher snakes (Pituophis catenifer, formerly P. melanoleucus) but also common kingsnakes (Lampropeltis getulus), commonly depredate nests of western bluebirds (Sialia mexicana) and other avian species at Hastings Reservation in central coastal California. Snakes preferentially climb trees containing active nests of western bluebirds situated in artificial nestboxes. Snakes rarely attack nests containing eggs, and attractiveness appears to increase with nestling age.
10.2307/3671783|Food habits of four of the described species of pupfishes in Laguna Chichancanab (Cyprinodon beltrani, Cyprinodon labiosus, Cyprinodon maya, Cyprinodon simus) were determined from the examination of gut contents. Cyprinodon maya had the most diverse diet, with a continued decrease in diversity from C. beltrani to C. labiosus to C. simus. There was a significant correlation of food items ingested between C. beltrani and C. simus and between C. beltrani and C. labiosus based on Spearman's rho and a considerable overlap in food items based on Pianka's formula. However, based on qualitative behavioral observations, a discrete food-item procurement and spatial separation between the species is suggested. The obvious morphological divergence in trophic structures found among these species can be construed as perhaps "supralimital specializations" which have been suggested in the past as allowing broad syntopy and reduced competition among these forms. /// El habito alimenticio de la clase de peces "pupfish" de Laguna Chichancanab ya descrito--fu determinado despues de haber examinado el contenido de los intestinos. Cyprinodon maya tenia la dieta mas diversa, disminuyendo esa diversidad en rden decreciente en Cyprinodon labiosus, Cyprinodon beltrani, y Cyprinodon simus. Habia una correlacin significante entre la alimentacin ingeridae entre C. beltrani y C. simus entre C. beltrani y C. labiosus basada en el rho de Spearman y sobrepuesto considerablemente fundado en la frmula de Pianka. Sin embargo, basado en ciertas observaciones, se sugiere darles algo de alimentacin y amplica distancia entre estes clases. La divergencia morfolgica mas obvia en la forma de nutricin encontrada entre estas clases puede referirse a que produce "adaptacion extraordinaria" que al mismo tiempo ayuda a reducir la competencia entre estas clases y producir amplia sintopia.
10.2307/3671784|We used starch-gel electrophoresis to analyze genetic variability at 33 loci in two populations of the Hutton's vireo (Vireo huttoni) representing coastal and interior groups of subspecies. Both V. h. huttoni (California) and V. h. stephensi (Arizona) showed reduced polymorphism. These populations are distinguished by a fixed allelic difference at the Gpi locus; Nei's D (0.031) is correspondingly large for subspecies of birds. Wright's F<sub>ST</sub>, at 0.614, is the largest reported for conspecific populations. Using Slatkin's (1985) rare allele method, we estimated that one migrant is exchanged between coastal and interior populations every 11 to 36 generations. The isolation of these populations probably antedates the late Wisconsin glacial maximum (18,000 YBP), and their strong genetic divergence indicates essential evolutionary independence.
10.2307/3671785|Estudiamos la variacin en la alimentacin, el ndice de condicin fsica y su relacin con la reproduccin en machos y hembras adultos, durante un ciclo anual, en una poblacin de la lagartija vivpara Sceloporus mucronatus de las montaas del Ajusco, Distrito Federal, Mxico. Ambos sexos se alimentaron de insectos, principalmente de larvas de lepidpteros y colepteros adultos, sin embargo durante todo el ao la materia vegetal (flores y hojas) estaba presente, por lo que consideramos que la dieta es omnvora. A lo largo del ao existieron variaciones significativas en la cantidad de alimento ingerido, decreciendo notablemente durante los meses de invierno. Durante el invierno ingirieron mayor cantidad de vegetales; mientras que, durante el verano se observaron los volmenes estomacales ms altos. El ndice de condicin fsica present diferencias notables entre los sexos, ya que mientras en los machos no mostr cambios significativos a lo largo del ao, en las hembras decreci considerablemente cuando ocurri el parto. Sugerimos que las hembras necesitan recuperarse del desgaste ocasionado durante la gestacin para poder reproducirse nuevamente. /// Using monthly samples, we studied the stomach contents, an index to the physical condition, and the relationships of these factors to the reproductive cycle in the viviparous lizard Sceloporus mucronatus from the Distrito Federal, Mxico. Both sexes fed mainly on insects, especially lepidopteran larvae and adult coleoptera, but plant material (flowers and leaves) was present at all times of the year. There was significant variation in the amount of food ingested during the year. The smallest stomach volumes were found in the winter, when plant material was a more important component, and stomachs were fullest in the summer. Condition indices differed between the sexes; that of males did not change through the year, but the index of females decreased suddenly at parturition. Females probably need several months of feeding to bring their condition up to the point where they can breed again.
10.2307/3671786|A spatially-isolated population of approximately 16 nesting pairs of bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) in Colorado and southeastern Wyoming was studied from 1981 to 1989. Reproductive success was 63% with 1.21 young fledged/occupied territory. Two hundred thirty-seven prey items, representing three vertebrate classes, were identified from food remains within or beneath nests. Mammals were the most important prey category, both in terms of prey numbers and total biomass. Nest trees were significantly taller and larger than randomly-chosen trees. Forest stands containing nest trees varied from old-growth ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) to narrow strips of riparian vegetation surrounded by rangeland.
10.2307/3671787|The composition of grasshopper communities on Ozark cedar glades and how these communities are affected by such factors as glade size, structural characteristics of plant cover, and surface characteristics of glades were examined. A significant correlation exists between the log(glade area) and both species diversity and the log(number of species). In the absence of periodic fires, plant succession on glades results in considerable change in the size, structure of plant cover, and surface characteristics of glades. These changes resulting from plant succession are associated with changes in the composition of grasshopper communities found on glades.
10.2307/3671788|We estimated seasonal forage availability and quality for mountain sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana) in Pusch Ridge Wilderness (PRW), Santa Catalina Mountains, Arizona. We measured available forage in PRW with a double sampling technique and measured consumption of forage by two captive mountain sheep. Mountain sheep were not limited by forage quantity or quality in PRW in 1987 to 1988. Forage availability was greater for April to September than for October to March. Habitat management for mountain sheep in PRW should concentrate on factors other than the availability or quality of forage.
10.2307/3671789|Different microsites affected the removal of O. streptacantha seeds (1, 10, or 100 seeds/clump) by rodents and the 5-month survivorship of transplanted seedlings. However, no microsite effects were found after 17 months on the survivorship of naturally established seedlings, indicating that this component of habitat heterogeneity may have a vanishing effect as the surviving plant grows. The results point to some of the difficulties associated with perennial species when evaluating the consequences of seed dispersal on adult fitness. /// Diferentes micrositios afectaron la remocin de semillas (1, 10,  100 semillas/montn) de Opuntia streptacantha por roedores y la sobrevivencia de plntulas trasplantadas durante 5 meses. Sin embargo, al cabo de 17 meses no hubo efecto de los micrositios sobre la sobrevivencia de plntulas establecidas naturalmente, lo que indica que el efecto de este componente de la heterogeneidad ambiental disminuye conforme crecen las plantas. Los resultados muestran algunos de los problemas encontrados al evaluar las consecuencias de la dispersin de las semillas sobre la aptitud de adultos de especies perennes.
10.2307/3671790|Se reportan 76 especies de aves en el municipio de Galeana, Nuevo Len, Mexico, presentes en dos asociaciones vegetales: en desierto de Larrea-Yucca con 52 especies y en matorrales de Pinus-Juniperus-Larrea con 42 especies. Se registraron nueve especies por primera vez para Galeana; incrementandose a 101 las aves conocidas para el municipio mencionado; una de ellas, Buteo regalis, es primer registro para el estado de Nuevo Len, Mexico. /// This report includes 76 species of birds for the vicinity of Galeana, Nuevo Len, Mexico, present in two plant communities: in Larrea-Yucca desert with 52 species and in Pinus-Juniperus-Larrea woodland with 42 species. Nine species of birds are recorded for the first time in Galeana, increasing to 101 the number of species known from the municipality mentioned. One of them, Buteo regalis, is a new record for the state of Nuevo Len, Mexico.
10.2307/3671791|Vernal pools are temporary habitats formed by shallow depressions which fill with water during the winter and dry out during the summer. During the winter of 1984-1985, we determined the relative abundance of 55 species of birds in 11 vernal pools at the Santa Rosa Plateau Preserve, Riverside Co., California. Vernal pools were used primarily by ducks, shorebirds, and grassland species of passerines and less frequently by raptors and other birds. Only the red-winged blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) attempted to nest. Both bird species richness (mean number of species per count) and bird abundance (mean number of birds per count) of each pool were positively correlated with pool area; neither variable was correlated with pool depth or plant species richness. /// Las lagunas vernales son hbitats temporales formados por depresiones pocas profundas que se llenan de agua durante el invierno y se secan durante el verano. Durante el invierno de 1984-1985, se determin la abundancia relativa de 55 especies de aves en 11 lagunas vernales en el Santa Rosa Plateau Preserve, Riverside Co., California. Las lagunas vernales fueron usadas especialmente por los patos, playeros, y paserinas de pastizales, y menos por las rapaces y otras especies de aves. Solamente el tordo de ala roja (Agelaius phoeniceus) intent nidificar. La riqueza de especies de aves (cantidad promedio de especies por censo) y la abundancia de aves (cantidad promedio de aves por censo) de cada laguna fueron correlacionadas positivamente con el rea de la laguna; ninguna variable fue correlacionada con la profundidad de la laguna ni la riqueza de especies de plantas.
10.2307/3671636|Budbreak of individual ramets of clonal Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii: Fagaceae) was advanced experimentally to test the effects of altered timing of budbreak and hence, leaf age, on patterns of folivory. Early-season folivory by leaf-chewing insects was significantly greater on younger leaves of control ramets than older leaves of experimental ramets. However, differences in cumulative folivory between control and experimental ramets disappeared by the end of the growing season. Colonization by three species of late-season leafminers was also unaffected by altered budbreak, indicating the impact of altered budbreak on folivores is concentrated early in the growing season. Analyses of nutritional and allelochemical content of experimental and control ramets correspond to the patterns of folivory; leaves of experimental ramets were significantly higher in gallotannin content than leaves of control ramets, but these differences also waned by the middle of the growing season. Our results suggest that variable budbreak can alter degree of folivory on Gambel oak, but only early in the growing season. The evolutionary implications of, and constraints on, variation in budbreak in woody plants are discussed.
10.2307/3671637|Nesting and foraging of least terns (Sterna antillarum) at sand pits near the Platte River in Nebraska were studied during summers of 1989 and 1990. Birds nested on spoil piles of coarse sand and small gravel with <10% vegetative cover adjacent to water-filled pits connected to the Platte River by channels. Adults foraged at sand pits and on the Platte River >1.5 km from the colony. Adults took primarily small (<3.8 cm total length) cyprinid fish to their nests. Six of eight nests yielded hatchlings in 1989 and five of six nests in 1990. Causes of egg and chick mortality were flooding and predation. Sand pits provide nesting and foraging sites for least terns, but encroachment of vegetation seems to render spoil piles unsuitable for nesting within 10-20 years after completion of sand extraction.
10.2307/3671638|The sibling species Drosophila melanogaster and D. simulans were collected periodically from Laguna Verde, Veracruz, Mexico, over a three-year period and tested for dispersive behavior in a double-ringed Sakai system. There were no indications of seasonal or long-term changes in the dispersive activity of either species. Both species showed significantly higher dispersal scores at 24 h than at 4 h, and the difference in dispersal scores between the two time periods was identical for both species. D. melanogaster exhibited significantly higher dispersal scores than D. simulans at 4 h in three of the six collections and, also, in an overlapping group of three collections at 24 h. These findings are discussed with relation to changes in relative frequencies of the two species, and climatological conditions of the area.
10.2307/3671639|Forty-two species of caddisflies distributed among nine families are reported from a segment of the Brazos River drainage in north-central Texas. Eight species are reported from the state for the first time and 33 species are reported as new drainage records. Families exhibiting the greatest diversity were the Hydroptilidae (16 sp.), Leptoceridae (9 sp.) and Hydropsychidae (7 sp.). Ochrotrichia capitana, Neotrichia n. sp., and Protoptila alexanderi represent range extensions northward into the North Central physiographic province of Texas.
10.2307/3671640|The reproductive pattern of three fruit-eating bats, Glossophaga soricina, Artibeus jamaicensis, and Artibeus lituratus, was studied in the "Costa Grande" region of Guerrero, Mexico, from June 1977 through May 1978. Reproductive state of females (pregnant or lactating) and growth of mammae were recorded to establish the reproductive pattern for each species. Lactating G. soricina were captured only in November, whereas the other two species appeared to have two periods of reproduction each year: A. jamaicensis with one peak in March and another in August, and A. lituratus in April and July. Whereas the reproductive activity of G. soricina coincided with the abundance of "zazanil" (Cordia dentata) fruits, that of A. jamaicensis and A. lituratus coincided with the abundance of almendro fruits (Terminalia catappa) and capulin fruits (Muntingia calabura). /// Se estudiaron los patrones reproductivos de los murcilagos frugvoros Glossophaga soricina, Artibeus jamaicensis y Artibeus lituratus en la Costa Grande de Guerrero, Mxico desde junio de 1977 hasta mayo de 1978. Con base en los estados de preez, lactancia y desarrollo mamario, se establecieron patrones reproductivos para cada especie. Se observ que Glossophaga soricina presenta un slo perodo de lactancia en noviembre, mientras que las dos especies del gnero Artibeus tienen dos: A. jamaicensis en marzo y en agosto y A. lituratus en abril y julio. Mientras que las actividades reproductivas de G. soricina coinciden con la abundancia de frutos de "zazanil" (Cordia dentata), en las otras dos especies con la presencia de los frutos del "almendro" (Terminalia catappa) y del "capuln" (Muntingia calabura).
10.2307/3671641|Change in microbial populations on three plant foods commonly stored over winter by eastern woodrats (Neotoma floridana) was assessed. It was expected that dogwood fruits (Cornus drummondii) would be affected by microbes to a greater degree than ash seed (Fraxinus pennsylvanica) or redbud seed (Cercis canadensis). Results revealed a change in microbial populations over time but dogwood fruit was no more liable to microbial infestation than seeds. One bacterial species was found in high number on all three food types while three species were found on only two of the three foods. Microbial populations from all three test items increased from November to January but March populations were not different from November populations. It is suggested that climatic factors help to control microbial populations on cache foods.
10.2307/3671642|We used an allozyme survey of 19 presumptive protein loci to examine the population structure of Desmognathus brimleyorum, in the Ouachita Uplift of Arkansas and Oklahoma. Most of the genetic diversity was due to heterozygosity within populations <tex-math>$(H_{\text{s}}=0.732)$</tex-math>, and the remainder <tex-math>$D_{\text{ST}}=0.268$</tex-math>) was attributable to differences between populations on different mountain masses. Differences between populations within mountains were negligible. Estimates indicated "intermediate" levels of gene flow between populations (Nm = 0.25). The population structure of Desmognathus brimleyorum indicates that the Mena Valley offers only a modest impediment to gene flow.
10.2307/3671643|During late spring and early summer of 1985, we studied community composition and distributional patterns of breeding birds on a bajada in southern New Mexico. Twenty-eight species were found, of which the 13 more common were examined in detail. We compared mean densities of all species among four transects and among three physiognomically distinct habitats. Comparisons between transects yielded a few significant differences that cannot be attributed to features of the habitat, but significant variation among habitats was found for most species. Bivariate correlations between bird abundances and vegetation suggested a positive relationship between grassland birds and an increase in plant cover in open areas and between scrub birds and the increase in diversity of plant life-forms. Similar relationships were found between the multivariate axes resulting from principal component analysis of plant-cover data and both bird species richness and diversity.
10.2307/3672059|Freshly-matured seeds of Mahonia fremontii collected in southern Utah in late July 1990 were used to investigate dormancy breaking and germination requirements. Seeds had fully developed spatulate embryos, and seed coats were permeable to water. Dormancy was broken by 6-10 weeks of cold stratification at a daily (12/12 h) thermoperiod of 5/1C. Seeds germinated to 100% at 15/6 following 10 weeks at 5/1, and those kept at 5/1C germinated to 97% after 14 weeks. Seeds do not require light for germination. A warm stratification treatment at 30/15C for 3 or more days prior to cold stratification at 5/1C significantly increased germination. Seeds "dispersed" (i.e., added to the August to March sequence of simulated habitat temperatures) in August, September, October, November and December germinated to 98-100% in March. Since gibberellic acid and afterripening in dry storage were somewhat effective in breaking dormancy and excised embryos of 10-month-old seeds grew normally, seeds have intermediate physiological dormancy (PD), a first report in the Berberidaceae. Seeds of Berberidaceae with PD are more advanced than other members of the family with morphophysiological dormancy.
10.2307/3672060|Ptychohyla merazi Wilson and McCranie is judged to be a junior subjective synonym of P. spinipollex (Schmidt). The taxon to which the name Ptychohyla spinipollex now applies is restricted to the Cordillera Nombre de Dios of north-central Honduras. The populations of frogs ranging from western Guatemala to north-central Nicaragua (exclusive of the Cordillera Nombre de Dios) to which the name spinipollex has heretofore been applied, lacks a name. A new name and a description of this species are provided. The taxon is compared with its closest relatives within the genus. Illustrations of the adult and the tadpole are included.
10.2307/3672061|Fragmentary prairie dog fossils (Cynomys) may preserve important taxonomic and biostratigraphic information. Discriminant function models developed herein, specific to the late Pleistocene of the Great Plains, permit identification to subgenus (black tails, subgenus Cynomys; white tails, subgenus Leucocrossuromys) of most fossils lacking the taxonomically diagnostic m3 tooth, but preserving p4-m2, p4-m1, or even p4 alone. In addition, univariate comparisons between late Irvingtonian-early Rancholabrean and late Rancholabrean (Wisconsin) samples from the Great Plains indicate that 30-55% of late Irvingtonian-early Rancholabrean black tails, 31-46% of late Rancholabrean black tails, and 12-41% of late Rancholabrean white tails (depending on element) may be biostratigraphically informative.
10.2307/3672062|Rare scattered occurrences of microchiropteran fossils in six localities in Arizona, Nevada, and California spanning parts of the late Miocene and Pliocene (late Hemphillian and Blancan land mammal ages) consist of teeth and a humerus fragment belonging to the families Vespertilionidae and Molossidae. Important records include the following: (1) a bat near Eptesicus but much smaller than Eptesicus fuscus, from the Redington fauna, Quiburis Formation, Arizona (late Hemphillian, ca. 5.9 Ma). (2) Lasiurus cf. L. blossevillii from the Verde fauna, Verde Formation, Arizona (early Blancan, ca. 4.2 Ma). This represents the first fossil record of this species and in connection with an occurrence of L. borealis from Texas, provides evidence that L. blossevillii has possibly been distinct from L. borealis for 3.5 Ma. (3) Eumops perotis from McRae Wash, St. David Formation, Arizona (late Blancan). This is the first Tertiary record of this species and the oldest record of Eumops in North America. (4) A specimen previously reported as Simonycteris stocki from the Wolf Ranch fauna, St. David Formation, Arizona (late Blancan, ca. 2.5 Ma) is referred to Antrozous pallidus. (5) A Myotis sp. with a humerus smaller than that of extant Myotis californicus and teeth of Antrozous pallidus from the Horse Spring Formation, near Moapa, Clark County, Nevada, of indefinite age but probably Blancan or possibly late Hemphillian by faunal correlation based on other taxa in the same assemblage. (6) Eptesicus fuscus from the Old Woman Sandstone, western facies, California (late Blancan). These records give the impression that the chiropteran fauna of southwestern North America had an essentially modern aspect in the late Tertiary; however, the chiropteran record is still extremely poor, and other published records for the Southwest (including Simonycteris, Plionycteris, and Anzanycteris) indicate evolutionary radiation (and extinction) as late as the Pliocene, at least for the Vespertilionidae.
10.2307/3672063|Observations of Psephenus montanus indicated an anomaly in the behavior of adults and the microdistribution of adults and eggs. Adults could not be found running about wave-splashed riffle rocks, but only beneath certain rocks near the shoreline. Egg masses were found here also instead of being distributed throughout the stream. Oviposting females are found on the bottom surfaces of submerged rocks. Males were found on the bottom, pitted surfaces of the same rocks but on a part of the rock that was moist but not completely submerged. Life history data indicate some differences between P. montanus and the closely related P. arizonensis. The known geology and hydrographic history allow for reasonable speculation in connecting waterways supporting these two species and the very closely related P. oresbius.
10.2307/3672064|Patterns of habitat use and relative abundance by Coues white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus couesi) and cattle were assessed by pellet group and dropping counts in and around Michilia Biosphere Reserve, Durango, Mexico. Deer and cattle use habitats more than expected by chance only in sites where either species was more abundant. Both species showed high habitat breadth and consequently had high habitat overlap. Deer abundance, as indicated by deer pellet-groups, was higher in some parts of the Reserve, particularly in the Reserve Core. Cattle abundance, as indicated by droppings, was high outside and in some sites inside the Reserve. Lowest cattle abundance was recorded in the Reserve Core. Numbers of deer pellet-groups and cattle droppings were negatively correlated. The data suggest that overgrazing by cattle and hunting strongly influence distribution and abundance of deer. /// Efectuamos una evaluacin de los patrones de uso de habitat y abundancia relativa por el venado de Coues y el ganado vacuno dentro y cerca de la Reserva de la Bisfera de la Michila, Durango Mxico, a travs del conteo de excrementos. Se documentaron preferencias de habitat slo en los sitios con mas abundancia de venado o de ganado. Documentamos amplitud de habitat alta para ambas especies y consecuentemente hubo una sobreposicin de habitats alta. La abundancia de venados, determinada a travs de los grupos de excrementos, fu mayor en algunas partes de la Reserva, particularmente en la zona ncleo. La abundancia de ganado fu alta tanto fuera como dentro de la Reserva. La abundancia mas baja de ganado se registr en la zona ncleo. Encontramos una correlacin negativa entre los excrementos de ganado y los de venado. Los patrones documentados sugieren que el sobrepastoreo del ganado y la cacera, estn influenciando fuertemente la distribucin y abundancia del venado de Coues.
10.2307/3672065|A polygynous fire ant infestation decimated the native ant community of a blackland prairie in north central Texas. Species richness declined 66% and native ant abundance declined 99% while the total number of ants increased 4-fold when compared with uninfested prairie. Where fire ant numbers were reduced through the application of an insect growth regulator, native ants were not decimated, but did not have the diversity of the uninfested area.
10.2307/3672066|Ashe juniper (Juniperus ashei) and Texas persimmon (Diospyros texana) fruit use and seed dispersal potential by four carnivores were studied on the Edwards Plateau region of Texas. Feces were examined to determine presence of seeds and frequency of occurrence by month from August 1989 to February 1990. Use of fruit species by month followed the pattern of fruit ripening of the two plant species. Texas persimmon fruit was consumed primarily between September and January while Ashe juniper fruit was consumed from October through February. Because large numbers of seeds are present in feces and few are destroyed in mastication and digestion all carnivores studied are considered legitimate dispersal agents of Ashe juniper and Texas persimmon. Dispersal efficiency of carnivores, however, is low due to the location of dispersed seeds (feces) and the clumped seed dispersal patterns.
10.2307/3672067|We surveyed the seasonal abundance and prevalence of gastrointestinal parasites of eastern woodrats (Neotoma floridana) from cross timbers upland forests in central Oklahoma. We recovered three helminth species (Longistriata neotoma, Bohmiella wilsoni, and Trichuris muris) from 99 collected woodrats. Overall, L. neotoma was the most prevalent and abundant nematode species recovered. Prevalence of all three species of nematodes was significantly influenced by season of collection; there were no differences due to gender. Mean abundance of B. wilsoni was higher in winter while abundance of L. neotoma was higher in summer.
10.2307/3672068|The spatial distribution of a Texas horned lizard population was quantified with respect to habitat and prey. Horned lizard spatial distribution was clustered in three specific areas, whereas ant mounds belonging to their primary prey, Pogonomyrmex barbatus, were randomly distributed in the study area. An analysis of vegetation cover relative to horned lizard spatial distribution suggests that habitat, not prey, governed the spatial distribution of this population. In particular, horned lizards selected disturbed areas where ground cover was less dense. Horned lizards occurred at a density of one lizard/3,636 m<sup>2</sup> or nearly three lizards/ha. Pogonomyrmex barbatus mounds occurred at a density of 15.9 mounds/ha, equivalent to about 196,492 ants/ha. Relative to harvester ants, horned lizards occurred at a ratio of one lizard per six ant mounds or one lizard per 74,148 ants. Compared with a previous study in New Mexico, harvester ant density was considerably greater, however, horned lizard density was less. This may be related to prey availability; although ants are less abundant at the New Mexico site, more individuals may be available for consumption due to habitat differences.
10.2307/3671422|The lower elevational limits of woodland decreases toward the south in the Southwest. This apparent anomaly appears to be the result of the interaction of decreasing precipitation and increasing potential drying power of the atmosphere (Potential Evapotranspiration = PotE) with decreasing elevation and latitude. Summer precipitation is the critical factor controlling the downward displacement of the arid-humid boundary from around 3,100 m in the northern Mojave-southwestern Great Basin Desert to approximately 2,100 to 2,250 m in west-central and southeastern Arizona. By implication, woodland vegetation zones descend concomitantly. Although originally described as a latitudinal anomaly, there is a strong longitudinal component involved. Summer precipitation increases from the west to the east in direct correspondence to increasing proximity to the moist summer air masses from the Gulf of Mexico or Pacific Ocean. Local temperature lapse rates can also be important as these determine the PotE lapse rate with elevation. Latitudinal warming in southeastern Arizona appears to offset a relatively larger rate of increasing precipitation with elevation.
10.2307/3671423|We measured digestible protein consumed by four captive desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus crooki) on a diet of native forage collected from the Belmont Mountains, Arizona. We measured the amount of forage available to deer in the Belmont Mountains. Intake of forage differed (P < 0.05) between sexes in every season. Intake of digestible protein for both sexes was highest in fall. Males and females consumed the least amount of digestible protein in spring and summer, respectively. We recorded differences (P < 0.05) of forage biomass among all vegetation associations, sites, and seasons. The most forage biomass was available in winter, and the least in spring.
10.2307/3671424|The Central Arizona Project (CAP) delivers Colorado River Water to Phoenix and Tucson, Arizona, via a series of canals. This canal system has disrupted the natural flow of water in washes that run north to south. We examined vegetation on the north and south sides of the CAP to determine vegetation changes resulting from the construction of the canal. We sampled washes with line intercept transects on the north and south side of the CAP and compared them to the surrounding desert. We estimated deer activity in these areas from track plots, aerial surveys, and locations of radio-collared deer. Vegetation composition, cover, and the width of washes and associated riparian areas were higher (P < 0.05) on the north side of the CAP than on the south side. Deer use of the washes was infrequent but increased during hot dry periods.
10.2307/3671425|Carbon isotope discrimination () is associated with long-term water-use efficiency (ratio of photosynthesis to transpiration), and varies within and among desert plant species. The variation of  within aridland perennial plants may be related to life-history class attributes, while differences in  between long- and shorter-lived species may be based on life-form dependent tradeoffs of growth and survival. We examined these patterns in two desert environments and asked if life-history class and life-form related differences in  occurred in Coleogyne ramosissima, Larrea tridentata, Encelia farinosa, Ambrosia dumosa and Gutierrezia microcephala. The mean  values of seedlings were greater than those of adults for all species except G. microcephala. The difference between life-history classes may represent a shift from low water-use efficiency (high ) during establishment to high water-use efficiency (low ) as an adult. Our results suggest that this shift is based on genetically- and/or environmentally-induced ontogenetic changes in plant metabolism. Such changes may be beneficial if a high  and low  are favored at different developmental stages. Interspecific comparisons showed that adult long-lived plants had lower  values than adults of shorter-lived species in the same community, but for seedlings the same pattern was found for only one pair of species. Thus the previously shown trend for long-lived species to have lower  values than shorter-lived species may depend on the stage of development.
10.2307/3671426|Fish remains from two archaeological sites (MNT-228, MNT-1570) in the Salinas River drainage of the Sacramento-San Joaquin ichthyological province were examined in part to confirm the native status of thicktail chub (Gila crassicauda), to establish the prehistoric presence of splittail (Pogonichthys macrolepidotus) and hardhead (Mylopharodon conocephalus), and to record the marine species exploited by the Native Americans. Both archaeological sites date to 7,500 years before present (YBP) and predate the environmental perturbation of the last 150 years. Splittail remains were not found and thus were extirpated prior to 7,500 YBP or were never present in the drainage. The lack of hardhead is considered inconclusive and the lack of diagnostic elements of the squawfish, Ptychocheilus grandis, has cast doubt on its native status. Overall, these archaeological sites contained remains of at least six freshwater, nine euryhaline and 17 marine species. The identification of sturgeon scutes, Acipenser sp., suggests that sturgeons entered the former estuary of the Salinas River, an area where sturgeons are unknown today.
10.2307/3671427|There was relatively little overlap in diet among Dipodomys ordii, Onychomys leucogaster, Neotoma micropus, and Spermophilus spilosoma in the shinnery oak-mesquite (Quercus havardii-Prosopis glandulosa) grassland of southeastern New Mexico. D. ordii primarily consumed Triplasis purpurea, P. glandulosa, Euphorbia, and arthropods; O. leucogaster predominantly consumed arthropods; N. micropus consumed plant fibers, new growth of dicots, Q. havardii, and P. glandulosa; and S. spilosoma primarily consumed arthropods, new growth of dicots, and grasses. Sexual differences in diet were virtually absent for D. ordii and O. leucogaster, but there was statistically significant variation in diets among seasons, years, and months (P  0.05). A sample of approximately 60 specimens would be required to obtain a reasonable estimate of the variety of food items consumed by D. ordii and O. leucogaster.
10.2307/3671428|We studied seasonal changes in populations of harvestmen from three arid to semiarid habitats in southwestern New Mexico. The following taxa were collected: Sclerobunus robustus robustus (Packard), Leiobunum townsendi Weed, Trachyrhinus marmoratus Banks, Protolophus singularis Banks, and an undescribed species of Metopilio and another of Globipes. Harvestmen were most abundant at the lowest (1,830 m) and highest (2,440 m) elevations. Half of the species were present as juveniles in the spring, and as adults in the summer and fall. This suggests that they are univoltine and survive the winter as eggs or early instar juveniles. Three genera, Globipes, Metopilio, and Protolophus, are newly recorded from New Mexico. Metopilio is a new record for the United States.
10.2307/3671429|Presentamos una revisin de las ocho especies de escarabajos longicornios del gnero Tylosis, incluyendo T. dimidiata Bates, T. hilaris Linsley, T. jimenezi Dugs, T. maculatus LeConte, T. oculatus LeConte, T. puncticollis Bates, T. suturalis White, y T. triangularis Monn y Martins. Consideramos T. puncticollis arizonicus Linsley como sinnimo de T. puncticollis. Tylosis maculatus, T. oculatus y T. puncticollis son abundantes y tienen una amplia distribucin. Algunas especies, incluyendo T. dimidiata, T. triangularis, y T. hilaris son ms escasas y tienen una distribucin limitada. Presentamos una clave taxonmica para la identificacin de las ocho especies. Coleccin es ms abundante en los meses de julio, agosto y septiembre. /// We revise the eight species of the longhorn beetle genus Tylosis, including T. dimidiata Bates, T. hilaris Linsley, T. jimenezi Dugs, T. maculatus LeConte, T. oculatus LeConte, T. puncticollis Bates, T. suturalis White, and T. triangularis Monn and Martins. We consider T. puncticollis arizonicus as a synonym of T. puncticollis. Tylosis maculatus, T. oculatus, and T. puncticollis are common and widely distributed. Some species, especially T. dimidiata, T. triangularis, and T. hilaris, are rarer and have limited distributions. We provide a key for the identification of the eight species. Specimens are most commonly collected during the months of July, August and September.
10.2307/3671430|A survey of genetic variation using starch-gel electrophoresis was conducted on a founding white crappie population in Copan Lake, a new Oklahoma reservoir. Of 38 loci surveyed, two (IDH-B and CK-C) were found to be polymorphic. Both maintained three alleles in the majority of samples identified by location, sex and age. All samples had fewer than expected IDH-B heterozygotes, suggesting that the founding population represented a mixture of stocks. In addition, significant shifts in age composition and allele frequencies at locations sampled immediately following impoundment further suggested the existence of multiple stocks. This study highlights the need to periodically monitor demographic and allelic composition of populations prone to fluctuations.
10.2307/3671431|Fourteen families, 41 genera, and 97 species of Ephemeroptera are confirmed for the state of Colorado. Of these, two families, 11 genera (Acerpenna, Apobaetis, Barbaetis, Camelobaetidius, Centroptilum, Heterocloeon, Ironopsis, Lachlania, Macdunnoa, Neochoroterpes, and Pseudiron), and 37 species are reported for the first time. The probability of certain additional genera eventually being found in Colorado is discussed. Previous and new records from 48 of the 63 Colorado counties are provided. The eastern plains region of the state remains relatively poorly known. Colorado species fit one of the following distributional patterns: continental widespread, continental mountain, northern transcontinental, northwestern, Rocky Mountain, southwestern, eastern-midwestern fringe, or western sand/silt riverine. Taxonomic, distributional, and other data that may be pertinent to Colorado Ephemeroptera are given for each species.
10.2307/3671608|We studied the timing and effect of black-tailed jackrabbit and desert cottontail herbivory on a platyopuntia species, Opuntia violacea var macrocentra at a site on the Jornada del Muerto, 35 km north of Las Cruces, New Mexico in the northern Chihuahuan Desert. Total monthly fecal pellet dry mass collected around the base of individual opuntias over 15 months indicates that both rabbit species exhibit a seasonal preference for this opuntia with the greatest grazing pressure evident during dry seasons or when little annual or new growth of other perennial plants is present. Neither rabbit species appears to graze small opuntias possessing less than three cladodes. They also appear to avoid grazing new cladodes, since more than 80% of the cladodes produced in May 1990 survived for six months. The proportion of individual opuntias grazed increases with increasing cladode number size class as does the mean fecal-pellet dry mass collected around the base of individual opuntias. Spinescence did not affect grazing intensity over the 15-month study period. Instead, plant size and grazing history appear to be the most important determinants of grazing intensity. Although statistically not significant, there is a trend in our data which suggests that above-average rabbit herbivory may negatively affect cladode, flower and fruit production in intermediate opuntia size-classes only. For individuals with either very few or very many cladodes these parameters appear unaffected by rabbit herbivory. However, the strongly-skewed size-class frequency distribution indicates that recruitment of juvenile opuntias into the population is little affected by rabbit herbivory.
10.2307/3671609|This study compared skull growth in cannibal and non-cannibal tiger salamanders, Ambystoma tigrinum. Skull measurements from cleared and stained larvae suggested that the development of small cannibals less than 70 mm SVL was characterized by the differential, accelerated growth of the skull. Though the skulls of cannibals remained larger than those of non-cannibals, the trophic apparatus of non-cannibals exhibited accelerated growth so that it was difficult to accurately identify cannibals or non-cannibals on the basis of skull size at snout-vent lengths greater than 70 mm. This study suggests that the soft-tissue, functional matrix of the head dictates head size, and that the increased head size in cannibals is compensatory growth responsive to the increased functional demands of macrophagy.
10.2307/3671610|We assessed several factors influencing the success of Juniperus virginiana in unburned tallgrass prairie by mapping the distribution of individuals in a 21-ha watershed on the Konza Prairie Research Natural Area in NE Kansas. We also compared the water relations of this tree with those of the dominant grass Andropogon gerardii. No general relationships were detected between the distribution of J. virginiana and plant water status, plant size, soil type, slope, aspect or elevation. Leaf xylem pressure potential () in upland trees was significantly lower (0.44 MPa) than in lowland trees, but only during the driest portion of the growing season. In contrast, topographic position influenced  more strongly in A. gerardii with  in upland plants as much as 1.0 MPa lower than in lowland plants. During wetter periods, photosynthetic rates in A. gerardii were higher than in J. virginiana in uplands, but the reverse occurred during the driest period of the growing season. The ability of J. virginiana to maintain higher  and higher photosynthetic rates relative to A. gerardii during periods of water limitation may contribute to its success in tallgrass prairie protected from fire.
10.2307/3671611|Little is known about reproductive biology in Sphaeralcea, a remarkably variable genus of mostly xerophytic and weedy perennial herbs. Understanding mating systems in Sphaeralcea may help explain the basis for the ecological success and complex variability exhibited in the genus. Our objective was to describe seed production and pollen tube growth following controlled self- and cross-pollination in Sphaeralcea laxa Woot. & Standl. from southern Arizona. Seed production after self-pollination was only about 12% of that present after cross-pollination. Significant reductions in seed production were also observed in crosses among siblings from a small, presumably colonial population. No consistent differences were observed in the number of pollen tubes in pistils between cross- or self-pollinations. S. laxa appears to be predominately cross-pollinated with no evidence of typical self-incompatibility mechanisms.
10.2307/3671612|Cranial characters of Felis rufus from the eastern United States were examined using a combination of univariate and multivariate procedures to assess patterns of geographic variation in sexual dimorphism. Seventeen characters from specimens representing 16 localities were used in the study. Using conservative statistical methods, geographic variation in sexual dimorphism was found in five of 17 characters. Only two of 28 selected environmental variables examined were found to be correlated with morphologic variation. The pattern of variation produced from principal components analysis suggested that F. rufus from mountainous areas tended to be more sexually dimorphic in size than animals from areas of little topographic relief. Explanations may include sexual differences in an equilibrium between selection for small size to minimize energy expense associated with locomotion and selection for large size to maximize reproductive success.
10.2307/3671613|Movements and habitats of collared peccaries (Tayassu tajacu) were studied in and around Saguaro National Monument (SNM), Arizona, from February 1988 through December 1989. Use of vegetation association, aspect, slope class, slope position, and distance to housing were assessed from 277 locations of five herds with radio-collared animals. Mean home-range size did not differ between urban and non-urban herds (1.03 km<sup>2</sup> and 1.00 km<sup>2</sup>, respectively). Urban herds were located within 250 m of housing when foraging (X = 240 m) and within 400 m of housing when bedded (X = 387 m). Peccaries in non-urban areas were located >825 m from housing. Homeowners adjacent to the monument deliberately provided food and water to attract wildlife onto their property. Peccary herds in urban areas supplemented their natural diet by visiting houses and/or restaurants on a daily or twice daily basis.
10.2307/3671614|The realization that conservation of biodiversity will require landscape management plans has highlighted the lack of knowledge of anthropogenic ecological factors in rural residential areas. This paper reports the results of a survey of anthropogenic factors potentially affecting the ecology of gray foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) in a rural residential area in New Mexico. The survey measured the extent of original habitat remaining, number of houses, number of anthropogenic food and water resources (gardens, compost piles, open trash, etc.), number and times of activity of introduced predators and competitors (domestic dogs), and attitudes of resident homeowners. Regression of these factors against relative gray fox density revealed that only extent of original habitat was significant. The attitudes of residents toward gray foxes were highly positive.
10.2307/3671615|We conducted ground counts and aerial surveys of beaver (Castor canadensis) colonies along 12 25-km sections of riverine habitat and 109 km of shoreline of three reservoirs in Kansas during November 1989 to February 1990. The number of beaver colonies found during ground surveys ranged from 0.08 to 1.40/km along riverine habitat and from 0.00 to 0.25/km for reservoir shoreline. During ground surveys we counted 146 and 11 beaver colonies along the riverine habitat and reservoir shoreline, respectively. Nine (82%) of the 11 shoreline beaver colonies were seen during aerial surveys whereas only 41 (28%) of the 146 beaver colonies found along river/stream habitats during ground searches were detected from aircraft. Food caches associated with reservoir-shoreline beaver colonies increased the visibility of those colonies from the air. Seldom were food caches associated with riverine beaver colonies, reducing the detectability of riverine colonies from the air. Ground counts appear more suitable than aerial surveys for enumerating beaver colonies along riverine habitat in Kansas, and most likely much of the Midwest, where beaver food caches, dams, and island lodges are not commonly associated with beaver colonies.
10.2307/3671616|We evaluated endangered Colorado squawfish (Ptychocheilus lucius) as a potential sportfish in Kenney Reservoir from 1988 to 1990 as part of a mitigation program for the construction of Taylor Draw Dam which impounded Kenney Reservoir on the White River, Colorado. A total of 96,597 fingerling squawfish were stocked into Kenney Reservoir from 1988 to 1990. These fish quickly dispersed throughout the reservoir, and downstream into the White River. A small number moved upstream in 1990. A large proportion, associated with high discharge following stocking, exited over the spillway, and continued to move downstream. Catch-per-unit-effort declined drastically in both the river and the reservoir in 1989 and 1990. The rapid disappearance of squawfish throughout the study area was attributed to flow regime, movement patterns, mortality, sampling ineffectiveness or a combination of these. Telemetry observations of six adult Colorado squawfish revealed no difference in behavior attributable to wild or hatchery origin. Stocking squawfish in Kenney Reservoir did not appear to be an effective mitigation procedure for habitat loss due to impoundment.
10.2307/3671617|The negative effects of introduced mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis) on native fishes of the American Southwest have been well documented. However, little experimental information is available to determine the level to which populations of Gambusia must be reduced before reintroducing native species. To simulate various options for managing indigenous fishes impacted by mosquitofish, we observed population growth of the least killifish (Heterandria formosa) with different starting densities of the eastern mosquitofish (Gambusia holbrooki) in replicate mesocosms. The presence of mosquitofish at all densities examined had a significant negative effect on population growth of least killifish. Therefore, complete removal of introduced mosquitofish appears to be the best management option for maintaining populations of native fishes.
10.2307/3672185|Species diversity and composition of small mammals were each compared between Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) grasslands and native shortgrass prairie on the Southern High Plains of Texas. Small mammals were livetrapped in all four seasons during a one-year interval at six CRP sites (1, 2, and 3 years of age) and two control sites. Two factors (vegetational heterogeneity and age of habitat) known to affect species diversity were analyzed by a variety of quantitative methods. No significant differences in mammalian diversity (Fisher's log series ) were found among sites, and diversity was not significantly correlated with vegetational heterogeneity or site age. Species composition (proportional density of species) was significantly different among all sites in each season. Regardless of season, a priori hierarchical comparisons revealed significant differences in the proportional abundances of species between all CRP sites as a group and in the control sites. The CRP grasslands simulate shortgrass prairies in species diversity, but not in species composition. Differences in species composition between CRP grasslands and shortgrass prairie may be a result of the lack of natural disturbances (i.e., grazing, fire) on the CRP grasslands.
10.2307/3672186|We evaluated the occurrence of the threatened leopard darter (Percina pantherina) in the Little River drainage in Oklahoma and Arkansas to comprehensively document the distribution of the species. Direct observation while snorkeling was used to determine presence. Leopard darters were absent from the Saline and mainstem Rolling Fork rivers. The species was widely distributed in the upper Mountain Fork and upper Little River drainages; populations occurred in the mainstrems and several tributaries of both of these streams. Small populations were found in the Cossatot River and the previously unsurveyed Robinson Fork of the Rolling Fork. Both of these populations were isolated and restricted to short stream reaches, and they lacked tributary refugia, thereby rendering them vulnerable to catastrophic extirpation.
10.2307/3672187|The palatability of the brightly colored and flightless Dactylotum variegatum (commonly called the rainbow grasshopper), relative to apparently cryptically colored and generally winged sympatric grasshopper species, was tested using local predators. Sparrows killed no D. variegatum when both this and other grasshopper species were offered in feeding trials. Mice, however, killed grasshoppers randomly. When similar numbers of D. variegatum were offered alone, mice killed a greater proportion of grasshoppers than the birds killed. When offered only D. variegatum, mice consumed significantly more of the D. variegatum that they killed than did birds. Mice consumed proportionately more of the D. variegatum killed when offered only this species than when offered a mixture of grasshopper species. We also observed nests of Cassin's sparrows to determine whether D. variegatum were delivered to nestlings by adults. No D. variegatum were delivered despite forming 18% of the grasshopper population in the area surrounding the nests. Although this species is highly visible, and represents a large portion of the grasshopper fauna, it does not appear to be proportionately consumed by the local predators we studied. This avoidance by predators may be an important factor influencing the abundance of the rainbow grasshopper in the local habitat. We conclude that the coloration of D. variegatum is aposematic, and is directed primarily at the visually hunting avian predators, being less of a deterrent to nocturnal mice.
10.2307/3672188|Apache cicada (Homoptera: Cicadidae: Diceroprocta apache Davis) densities were estimated to be 10 individuals/m<sup>2</sup> within a closed-canopy stand of Fremont cottonwood (Populus fremontii) and Goodding willow (Salix gooddingii) in a revegetated site adjacent to the Colorado River near Parker, Arizona. Coupled with data drawn from the literature, I estimate that up to 1.3 cm (13 1/m<sup>2</sup>) of water may be added to the upper soil layers annually through the feeding activities of cicada nymphs. This is equivalent to 12% of the annual precipitation received in the study area. Apache cicadas may have significant effects on ecosystem functioning via effects on water transport and thus act as a critical-link species in this southwest desert riverine ecosystem. Cicadas emerged later within the cottonwood-willow stand than in relatively open saltcedar-mesquite stands; this difference in temporal dynamics would affect their availability to several insectivorous bird species and may help explain the birds' recent declines. Resource managers in this region should be sensitive to the multiple and strong effects that Apache cicadas may have on ecosystem structure and functioning.
10.2307/3672189|Neviusia alabamensis, Alabama Snow Wreath, is a clonal endemic shrub restricted to 16 sites in five states of the southeastern United States. An electrophoretic analysis of 10 enzymes presumably encoded by 15 loci was conducted to estimate levels of genetic diversity within and among the four most disjunct western populations. Only a single unique multilocus genotype was detected at each site. Numerous loci are fixed for the same allele; however, a moderate level of heterozygosity is present at some loci. Reproduction appears to be exclusively by vegetative spread and, together with severely reduced pollen viability, accounts for the apparent lack of interpopulation gene flow. The F<sub>ST</sub> value of 0.569 indicates pronounced isolation among these Arkansas populations. Levels of allozyme variation and clonal diversity are generally lower in N. alabamensis than in other endemic and asexual species.
10.2307/3672190|Sceloporus torquatus minor is a name Cope proposed for lizards of the torquatus group from "Zacatecas" in 1885. Subsequently, the epithet minor was transferred to S. jarrovi and the type locality of S. j. minor was restricted to the "Valparaiso Mountains" in western Zacatecas. Our comparison of the two original syntypes of S. j. minor with lizards from the Valparaso Mountains indicates that they do not represent the same taxon. The type locality of S. t. minor Cope is herein restricted to eastern Zacatecas where the resident lizards closely resemble the two syntypes; one of these syntypes (USNM 26167) is designated as the lectotype, the other (USNM 26166) as a paralectotype, of S. t. minor Cope. /// Sceloporus torquatus minor es un nombre que Cope propuso para el grupo de lagartijas torquatus del estado mexicano de Zacatecas en el ao de 1885. Despus, el epteto minor fue transferido al S. jarrovi y la localidad tipo de S. j. minor fue restringido a las Montaas Valparaso del oeste de Zacatecas. Nuestra comparacin de los dos sintipos originales del S. j. minor con las lagartijas de las Montaas Valparaso nos indica que no representan el mismo grupo taxonmico. La localidad tipo del S. t. minor Cope est restringida al oriente de Zacatecas, donde las lagartijas son muy similares a los dos sintipos; uno de estos sintipos (USNM 26167) ha sido designado como lectotipo, el otro (USNM 26166) como un paralectotipo del S. t. minor Cope.
10.2307/3672191|Eggshell characteristics of oviductal eggs in the collared lizard, Crotaphytus collaris, were investigated using light and electron microscopy. Quantitative relationships among eggshell zones were determined using stereological techniques. The eggshell consists of three layers or zones (Z<sub>1</sub>, Z<sub>2</sub>, and Z<sub>3</sub>; innermost to outermost, respectively) of long fibrils overlain by a calcareous layer. Fibrils may lie parallel to one another, or they may crisscross each other. Furthermore, the eggshell fibrillar regions are characterized by irregular, accordion-like foldings. Construction and packaging of eggshell fibrils differed significantly among zones. Fibrils in Z<sub>1</sub> are more dense (less fibrillar space) than in either Z<sub>2</sub> or Z<sub>3</sub>, and fibrils in Z<sub>2</sub> are the least dense. Interfibrillar space was approximately the same in Z<sub>1</sub> and Z<sub>3</sub>. Mean eggshell volume occupied by each fibrillar zone differed with Z<sub>2</sub> contributing 80%, whereas both Z<sub>1</sub> and Z<sub>3</sub> contained approximately 10%. Average fibrillar diameter was greatest in Z<sub>1</sub> and varied significantly between each zone. The results of this study support previous observations on other saurian species in that eggshell fibrillar deposition is similar and that eggshells share common ultrastructural morphologies.
10.2307/3672192|Recolonization by small mammals, reptiles, amphibians, and arthropods was studied in 1988 and 1989 on The Pittsburg and Midway Coal Mine in northwestern New Mexico. Sites reclaimed in 1979, 1982, and 1986 were compared with unmined sites for differences in animal composition and abundance. Wildlife components were compared with vegetative composition and physical ground features to determine if these influenced wildlife recolonization. The greater species richness of small mammals and the greater abundance of reptiles on the control treatment suggests that reclaimed sites are not providing suitable rock or woody cover for some species. Positive correlations of rock cover and woody cover with small-mammal species richness and total reptile and amphibian captures indicate that placing rocks and woody cover on reclaimed sites may be beneficial to several small mammal, reptile, and amphibian species.
10.2307/3672193|Collections of ephemeropteran nymphs were made from both coarse woody debris (CWD) and benthic habitats from the White River, Illinois River, and Clear Creek of northwestern Arkansas, from February 1991 through February 1992. Two-way analysis of variance comparing the density of mayflies between habitat types, and among seasons yielded significant main effects only with habitat type. There was no two-way interaction. Mayflies were significantly more abundant in benthic habitats than on CWD. Of at least 35 species of mayflies, 11 were collected in significantly greater densities from benthic habitats, and only two from CWD. Degree of decay was an important factor in determining the abundance of species on CWD. Species with a preference were more abundant either on wood with loose bark remaining, or well decayed wood containing many interstitial spaces. The volume of biofilm on CWD was a factor in determining the abundance of only one species.
10.2307/3672194|Ambiguities in the identification and nomenclature of the snapping shrimp, Alpheus heterochaelis, led to a preliminary assessment of allozymic variation in Alpheus from Galveston and Port Aransas, Texas. From a total of 39 animals, eleven loci were resolved, of which 9 were polymorphic. At both localities, these loci were entirely concordant in partitioning the individuals into two discrete electrophoretic groups; 6 loci exhibited alternate alleles without corresponding heterozygotes. The genetic similarity of the two groups was estimated at 0.209. These data support the hypothesis that two species exist within what is currently recognized as A. heterochaelis along the coast of Texas.
10.2307/3672195|The status of the California mountain lion (Felis concolor californica May) population has been controversial and central to disputes regarding its management. Track survey methods and transects were developed during the 1980s to provide the only standard estimate of mountain lion population trends in California. In 1992, I repeated the 1986 statewide survey for mountain lion track sets, in which a track set is any continuous trail of tracks made by the same animal. Track set density increased 313% in the mountains of southern California, but they decreased 52% in northern California, and 61% in areas where timber was removed since 1986. Most of the areas preferred by resident mountain lions in 1986 were avoided in 1992 after they were clearcut. Whereas residents preferred unharvested and non-forest areas in 1992, track set densities of deer were the same with or without timber loss. Mountain lion track set density might have decreased due to degradation of habitat quality other than prey availability, or it might have decreased as part of a natural population cycle, which is common among species of Carnivora. When this decrease was added to the changes observed at three sites monitored since 1980, the pattern resembled nearly one complete cycle. Plans for management and research of mountain lions should include the effects of habitat loss and natural population dynamics.
10.2307/3672196|We quantified brush canopy cover, vegetation structure, and moisture content of herbaceous vegetation at 95 sites used by 5 radiomarked northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) hens with broods 6 weeks old in southern Texas. Moisture content of herbaceous vegetation differed among brood activity sites and was greatest at brood feeding sites. Brush canopy cover differed among activity sites and was more dense at midday loafing sites than at feeding sites. Woody species that shaded 1% of midday loafing sites were mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa), spiny hackberry (Celtis pallida), cenizo (Leucophyllum frutescens), lotebush (Ziziphus obtusifolia), and goldenweed (Isocoma coronopifolia). Coverage of these species did not differ between loafing areas and sites chosen randomly on the study area. Vegetation structure did not vary among activity sites. Bobwhite managers should consider the within-day variability of habitat selection by bobwhite broods when manipulating habitat.
10.2307/3672197|We examined the relative importance of biotic factors (microarthropods, termites, and fungi), and abiotic weathering on loss in mass of creosotebush leaf-litter on the soil surface in the northern Chihuahuan Desert. We treated litter with either an insecticide (chlordane), a fungicide (benomyl), a general biocide (<tex-math>$\text{HgCl}_{2}\text{-CuSO}_{4}$</tex-math> solution or, as a control, distilled water. Our results suggest that microarthropods and fungi do not play significant roles in creosotebush litter decomposition in arid habitats. The rate of loss in mass from fungicide treated litter was not significantly different from control litter. Litter in fungicide treatment plots differed from that of the abiotic treatment plots in having higher rates of loss, suggesting that other components of the litter communities compensate for the lack of certain organismal groups. The rate of loss in litter treated with the general biocide during late summer was not significantly different from the rates for other litter, demonstrating that abiotic factors have an important effect. We suggest that these factors include intense sunlight and high UV-radiation and heat of the soil surface in summer. Actual evapotranspiration and decomposition rates of surface litter are uncorrelated in desert ecosystems. This may be due to abiotic fragmentation of the litter and the necessity of a threshold (amount or intensity) of rainfall which is necessary to fragment litter and wash it into the soil.
10.2307/3672198|One new species each of the Psocoptera genera Haplophallus (Philotarsidae) and Lichenomima (Myopsocidae) are described from specimens collected on Socorro Island, Revillagigedo Archipelago, Mxico. These genera had not been previously recorded from Mxico. Both species are also known to occur in Mexican continental localities, on the coast of Jalisco, coast of Sinaloa and near the coast of Baja California, on the southern tip of the peninsula. /// Sendas nuevas especies de los gneros Haplophallus (Philotarsidae), y Lichenomima (Myopsocidae), (Psocoptera), son descritas, con base en ejemplares colectados en Isla Socorro, Archipilago de Revillagigedo, Mxico. Estos gneros no haban sido previamente registrados en Mxico. Ambas especies se conocen tambin en localidades continentales de Mxico, en la costa de Jalisco, costa de Sinaloa y cerca de la costa de Baja California, en el extremo sur de la pennsula.
10.2307/3672233|Little is known about the population status of the parasitic lamprey Lampetra spadicea and its nonparasitic counterpart L. geminis, relict species endemic to the highlands of central Mxico. We used literature and museum specimen data to delineate the historical distribution of both species and then conducted field surveys to determine current distribution and abundance. Lampetra spadicea was historically found in Lago de Chapala; the lower reaches of the Ro Zula, which enters the Ro Grande de Santiago just below the outlet of Lago de Chapala; the Ro Duero, which enters the Ro Lerma about 20 km above the inlet to Lago de Chapala; and endorheic Lago de Cuitzeo and its tributary Ro Grande de Morelia drainage, which are adjacent to the Ro Lerma drainage. Lampetra spadicea apparently has been eliminated from the Morelia-Cuitzeo basin and persists, in low numbers, at only a few localities in the Lerma-Chapala-Santiago basin. It should be considered endangered. Declines in distribution and abundance were probably caused by environmental degradation. Lampetra geminis was historically known from the upper Ro Duero and Ro Grande de Morelia drainages, and it remains locally common in both. However, the range of the species is small, and pollution and habitat modification threaten several populations. This species should be given "special concern" status. /// El conocimiento del estado de las poblaciones de la lamprea parsita Lampetra spadicea y su contraparte no parsita L. geminis, especies relictas y endmicas de la Mesa Central de Mxico, es escaso. Usando los datos de la literatura y de ejemplares en los museos, se deline la distribucin histrica de ambas especies para posteriormente realizar investigaciones de campo y as determinar la distribucon y abundancia actuales. Lampetra spadicea se encontraba histricamente en el Lago de Chapala; en los afluentes bajos del Ro Zula, el cual entra al Ro Grande de Santiago justo abajo de su salida del Lago de Chapala; en el Ro Duero, el cual entra al Ro Lerma aproximadamente 20 km antes de su desembocadura al Lago de Chapala y en el lago endorreico de Cuitzeo y su tributario el Ro Grande de Morelia, los cuales son adyacentes a la cuenca del Ro Lerma. Lampetra spadicea aparentemente ha sido eliminada de la cuenca Morelia/Cuitzeo y persiste, en bajo nmero, en unas pocas localidades de la cuenca Lerma/Chapala/Santiago. Este especie debe ser considerada en peligro de extincin; su descenso en abundancia y distribucin probablamente han sido causados por la degradacin ambiental. Lampetra geminis histricamente se conoca de las cabeceras de los Ros Duero y Grande de Morelia y es localmente comn en ambos. Sin embargo, el rea de distribucin de la especie es pequea y la contaminacin y modificacin del hbitat ponen en peligro algunas poblaciones. Esta especie debe considerarse como un caso de proteccin especial.
10.2307/3672234|Effects of simulated herbivory (clipping) on the growth of bermuda grass, Cynodon dactylon, and huisache, Acacia smallii, was evaluated in the greenhouse when they were grown alone, in competition with each other, and with or without added nutrients. Clipping reduced shoot dry-mass of both species, but the effect was modified by the presence of added nutrients. The addition of nutrients stimulated shoot dry-mass production in C. dactylon, but had no stimulatory effect on A. smallii unless C. dactylon was clipped. Although shoot dry-mass in C. dactylon was reduced by clipping, that in A. smallii was reduced an order of magnitude more. One seedling of A. smallii had essentially no negative effect on shoot dry-mass in C. dactylon. The presence of defoliated C. dactylon reduced shoot dry-mass in clipped A. smallii by 86% in low nutrient soil, but with the addition of nutrients, dry mass in unclipped A. smallii was only reduced 62%. If neither C. dactylon or A. smallii were clipped, shoot dry-mass in A. smallii was reduced 92%, but if clipping was applied differentially to A. smallii but not the grass, the reduction of dry mass in A. smallii was greatest at 98% regardless of nutrient level. Results of nutrient additions suggest that reduced growth of A. smallii in the presence of the clipped grass is at least partially due to removal of a nutrient from the soil by the grass.
10.2307/3672235|Despite changes in the relative abundance of C<sub>4</sub> perennial grasses that have occurred in the northern portion of the Chihuahuan desert, no comparative physiological studies on these grasses have been reported. Concurrent measurements were made of leaf physiology, gas exchange, chlorophyll and nitrogen content for mature Bouteloua eriopoda, Sporobolus contractus, and Hilaria mutica during the spring period following an unusually long winter drought. Except for a brief period following rain, midday photosynthesis (A) in Bouteloua was below 10 mol m<sup>-2</sup>s<sup>-1</sup>. Sporobolus also had low midday A early in the season but had the greatest increase in A following rain when rates approached 25 mol m<sup>-2</sup>s<sup>-1</sup> and maintained the higher rates through the subsequent dry period. In contrast to the other species, Hilaria exhibited higher A early in the season but a more moderate response to increased soil water. Results for the individual species are discussed in the context of speculations contained in published literature concerning varying degrees of drought resistance among the species. Future field studies on these grasses must be broader in scope to fully elucidate differences in drought resistance and the importance of any adaptive physiological mechanisms to past or present vegetation patterns.
10.2307/3672236|Species diversity and habitat associations were documented for small mammals along 16 transects in a semiarid part of coastal California. Peromyscus were the most abundant, comprising 45.3% of all captures, followed by Dipodomys (21.2%), Neotoma (15.1%), and Perognathus (15.0%). Five additional genera made up the remaining captures (3.4%). Peromyscus truei and Perognathus californicus were both common and widespread, accounting for 42.1% of all captures. Both species were found on all but one transect. Neotoma lepida, the third most common species, was captured on rock transects 96% of the time. Dipodomys elephantinus was the fifth most common species, and was found exclusively in chamise chaparral. Species diversity (H) averaged 1.22 and ranged from 0.33 on a chamise chaparral transect to 1.74 on another chamise chaparral transect which crossed the edge of a burn. Nearly all transects demonstrated this same trend for diversity to vary widely both within and between habitats, indicating that local conditions were more of an influence on diversity than broad habitat types. Selectivity, averaged across the ten most common species, was only 0.06, indicating that habitat selectivity was quite low. The most geographically widespread species, Peromyscus maniculatus, was the least selective (0.03), whereas the two species with the smallest geographic ranges, D. venustus and D. elephantinus, showed the greatest habitat selectivity (0.11 and 0.20, respectively). These values are much lower than those reported from short-term studies and suggest that, like species diversity, brief studies may not accurately reflect community-level interactions.
10.2307/3672237|The butterfly community at a revegetated riparian site on the lower Colorado River near Parker, Arizona, was compared to that found in a reference riparian site. Data indicated that the herbaceous plant community, which was lacking at the revegetated site, was important to several butterfly taxa. An index using butterfly sensitivity to habitat change (species classified into risk groups) and number of taxa was developed to monitor revegetation projects and to determine restoration effectiveness.
10.2307/3672238|Six experimental diets were fed to 60 captive game-farm mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) housed in outdoor aviaries in Southeastern Arkansas during December 1990 to January 1991. Diet treatments were: 1) high-protein (27%) pellet (control diet nutritionally balanced for ducks), (2) low-protein pellet (control diet deficient in protein), (3) corn, (4) rice, (5) soybean, and (6) a natural diet, which represented foods available to wild mallards in the Mississippi Alluvial Valley during winter. Birds fed the natural diet consumed the highest total mass of pellets. Consumption of high- and low-protein pellets was similar (P  0.12) regardless of the diet mallards were fed during all six feeding trials. Soybeans contain digestion inhibitors. Despite this, mallards maintained on soybeans did not increase intake above that of birds consuming the five other diets, suggesting that consumption of soybeans may decrease mallard appetite and thereby reduce daily nutrient intake. Pellet consumption during feeding trials was also influenced by ambient temperature and food-pan placement. Negative energy balances, hunting or dominance pressures, and digestion-inhibiting factors may all interfere with mechanisms to direct food choices. Thus, mallards apparently feed opportunistically on whatever food items become available.
10.2307/3672239|Meda fulgida (Pisces: Cyprinidae) is a species endemic to the Gila River basin of Arizona, Mexico, and New Mexico. The extent of geographic variation in morphology within this species has not been explored although evidence indicates that subpopulations have long been isolated. We examined samples from the four restricted areas within the Gila River basin where subpopulations persist, and used principal components analysis, regression against PC1 (to eliminate variation due to size), and ANOVA to demonstrate that individuals from the Verde River (Arizona) have smaller mouths in proportion to body length as compared to individuals from Aravaipa Creek (Arizona). Subpopulations from New Mexico and Eagle Creek in Arizona have intermediate measurements. Additional analyses confirm that females have shorter pre-pectoral measurements, greater mid-body size, and shorter pectoral fins than do males. /// Meda fulgida (Pisces: Cyprinidae) es una especie endmica del Rio Gila en Arizona, Mxico, y Nuevo Mxico. Lo amplio de la variacin geogrphica de la morfologa de esta especie no ha sido explorada, aunque pruebas indican que subpoblaciones han sido largamente aisladas. Nosotros examinamos muestras provenientes de las cuatro reas restringidas dentro del Rio Gila donde persisten subpoblaciones, y usamos anlisis de componentes principales, regresin encontra del PC1 (para eliminar la variacin debida al tamao), y ANOVA para demonstrar que individuos provenientes Rio Verde (Arizona) tienen la boca ms pequea en proporcin a la longitud del cuerpo en comparacin con individuos provenientes del Arroyo Aravaipa (Arizona). Subpoblaciones de Nuevo Mxico y Arroyo Eagle (Arizona) tienen una medida intermedia. Anlisis adicionales confirman que las hembras tienen medidas prepectorales ms cortas, mayor tamao en la mitad del cuerpo, y aletas pectorales ms cortas que los machos.
10.2307/3672240|Reproductive data were obtained from 91 captures of Pappogeomys merriami merriami from Huitzilac, Morelos, Mxico, from October 1980 to October 1981. Thirty percent of those captured were adult males, 47% were adult females, and 23% were juveniles. Female reproductive activity, defined as pregnancy or lactation, occurred primarily from October through March, but the potential for year-round reproduction was demonstrated. The mean sizes of the testes, seminal vesicles, and caudal epididymides of the males fluctuated during the year without a discernable pattern, but spermatozoa were present in all males captured year-round. Pregnant females were taken primarily during the dry season; however, juveniles were captured year-round.
10.2307/3672241|A series of experiments examined how ecological factors affect notonectid foraging success on fairy shrimp. Variation in pond depth over natural ranges had no direct effect on notonectid ability to capture fairy shrimp. Decreases in water clarity over natural ranges led to decreased notonectid ability to capture fairy shrimp. This corresponds with the observation that six weeks after the fairy shrimp hatched they were more likely to be present in cloudy ponds than in ponds containing clearer water. If correct, this is a situation where physical factors have a major effect on how a biological interaction influences the local distribution of species. It appears water depth indirectly affects notonectid foraging rates, as shallow ponds are apparently made cloudy by wind-driven waves disturbing the bottom mud. These results suggest the notonectid-fairy shrimp interaction will not be a constant for any given pond, but will depend on abiotic factors like amount of rainfall and frequency of windy conditions.
10.2307/3672242|Correlations between fecal nitrogen (N) and diet composition of black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemionus columbianus) were examined to gauge how well fecal N could predict diet quality. Correlation coefficients were generally weak and inconsistent between study years. Diet composition variables were significant predictors of fecal N but the coefficients of determination were small (0.16 in summer, 0.31 in winter). Fecal N appears to be useful only for confirming broad (i.e., winter to summer) seasonal trends in diet quality for free-ranging cervids.
10.2307/3671585|We sampled a series of riffles and pools on the Cottonwood River, Kansas, for one year to determine seasonal densities, habitat use, and the extent of inter-riffle movements of the Neosho madtom (Noturus placidus), a federally threatened catfish. The species exhibited limited seasonal variability in habitat use and appeared to be a year-round riffle inhabitant. Neosho madtoms inhabited shallower riffle areas in spring and summer, sites with greater water velocities in spring, and slower velocities in winter. Madtoms used sites with greater percentage rock substratum in winter, and substratum embeddedness was consistently low at sites of madtom presence. Current speed at the substrate surface, low variance of current speed, shallow water, and loosely embedded substratum were variables most useful in predicting madtom presence. Only one inter-riffle movement was documented, suggesting little dispersion among riffles throughout the year. Two age classes were obvious in length-frequency histograms; young-of-year appeared in July, suggesting a June spawn. Neosho madtom populations were assessed by mark-recapture (47 madtoms/100 m<sup>2</sup>), depletion removal (22  4/100 m<sup>2</sup>), species-specific (15.5/100 m<sup>2</sup>), and overall (3.3/100 m<sup>2</sup>) density calculations.
10.2307/3671586|Surveys in the historic range of the Chihuahua chub, Gila nigrescens (Girard) (Mimbres River in New Mexico, Guzmn and Laguna Bustillos basins in Chihuahua, Mxico) during 1987-1991 documented current distribution and status, life history attributes and habitat, and factors contributing to the decline of the species. The Chihuahua chub has decreased dramatically in range and abundance during the past century, and is now comparatively common only in remote areas relatively free of habitat modification. Most populations consisted of individuals 100 mm standard length; males were smaller than females. Chihuahua chub were usually found in pools associated with tree root masses in permanently watered stream reaches. It was rare or absent where non-native fishes (particularly potential predators) were common. The high habitat specificity of the Chihuahua chub and widespread destruction of its habitat are likely the main reasons for the much reduced range and abundance of the species. /// Investigacines en el habitat histrico del charalito Chihuahuense, Gila nigrescens (Girard), (Ro Mimbres, Nuevo Mxico USA, y las cuencas de Guzmn y Laguna de Bustillos, Chihuahua Mxico) durante 1987-1991 documentaron la distribucin y estado actual, parmetros de vida histrica, habitat, y factores que contribuyen a la declinacin del especie. El charalito Chihuahuense ha disminuido dramticamente en distribucin y abundancia durante el siglo pasado, y al presente es comparativamente comn solamente en reas relativamente libre de modificacin del habitat. Las ms de las poblaciones consiten de individuos de 100 mm de longitud estandar; machos fueron mas pequeos que hembras. Charalito Chihuahuense fue usualmente encontrado en charcos asociados con montnes de raics de arboles en aguas de corriente permanente. Fue raro o ausente donde fueron comunes peces exticos (particularmente predadores potenciales). El alto nivel de especificidad en cuanto a preferencia de habitat que requiere el charalito Chihuahuense y amplia destruccin de este tipo de habitat probablemente son las raznes principales por la gran desminucin de distribucin y abundancia del especie.
10.2307/3671587|Canonical variate analysis (CVA) of color pattern and scutellation characters in lizards collected in Ninemile Valley of the Purgatoire River at Higbee, Otero Co., Colorado graphically depicted two forms of parthenogenetic Cnemidophorus tesselatus (diploid color pattern class C and triploid color pattern class B), gonochoristic C. sexlineatus, and hybrid C. tesselatus  C. sexlineatus as four morphologically distinctive groups. A newly obtained male specimen with a C. tesselatus-like color pattern entered as an unknown was classified to the hybrid group in the CVA. It represented the fourth tetraploid hybrid C. tesselatus B(3n)  C. sexlineatus collected in the valley. A female specimen was also classified to the hybrid group by the CVA. A triploid karyotype (3n = 69) and color pattern identified this female as a putative C. tesselatus C(2n)  C. sexlineatus hybrid. Whereas male hybrids are presumably sterile and biological novelties at most, the possibility remains that a female hybrid could be the founder of a new parthenogenetic lineage.
10.2307/3671588|Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) restriction sites were surveyed among geographic samples representing the four extant species of the North American cyprinid genus Pimephales. Maximum-parsimony analysis of restriction-site data using unordered character states provided support for a sister-group relationship between P. promelas and the three remaining species. Maximum-parsimony analysis using Dollo criteria yielded a completely resolved tree with sister-group relationships between P. notatus and P. promelas and between P. tenellus and P. vigilax. Fitch-Margoliash analysis of a pairwise nucleotide-sequence-divergence matrix yielded the following distance relationships: (P. promelas (P. notatus (P. tenellus, P. vigilax))). The hypothesis of relationships based on Dollo parsimony is identical to one proposed on the basis of parsimony analysis of morphological characters. A sister-group relationship between P. notatus and P. vigilax, as suggested by analysis of chromosomal nucleolus organizer region (NOR) phenotypes, was not supported. Mitochondrial DNA divergence among geographic samples of P. vigilax corresponded to the two nominal subspecies: P. v. vigilax and P. v. perspicuus. A sample of P. notatus from Michigan was divergent in mtDNA sequence from samples of P. notatus from Kansas and Oklahoma; whereas a sample of P. promelas from Michigan was very similar in mtDNA sequence to a sample of P. promelas from Nebraska. Glacial isolation or indiscriminate introductions may explain this difference in geographic pattern of mtDNA divergence/similarity among populations of the two species.
10.2307/3671589|The summer emergence patterns of mayfly, stonefly, and caddisfly species are described for a second order, southern Rocky Mountain Colorado stream. Frequent, standardized, sweepnetting and emergence trap samples provided 1,779 adults of 45 taxa consisting of 11 mayfly, 15 stonefly, and 19 caddisfly species. The five most dominant species were, in order of importance, Suwallia nr. lineosa, Sweltsa coloradensis, Oligophlebodes minutus, Paraleuctra vershina, and Baetis bicaudatus. Stoneflies contributed 70% of all adults collected. Peak species richness of all orders occurred near the summer solstice and maximum water temperatures. The range of slope values generated by simple linear regression of cumulative percentage catch revealed that emergence was extended (slopes < 4%/day) for five of the seven most abundant species. Two caddisflies, O. minutus and Rhyacophila pellisa, displayed a synchronous emergence pattern. This study adds 35 new records for the Rio Conejos drainage and Conejos County and provides a baseline of comparison against future changes in species richness among these orders.
10.2307/3671590|The island spotted skunk and island fox of Santa Cruz Island are insular endemics whose continued existences are uncertain and about which little is known. Through trapping, I evaluated relative abundance, sex ratio, age structure, and variation in weight according to age, sex, and season for both species. Foxes were abundant and easily captured (23% overall trap success), while skunks were rare and difficult to capture (0.57% overall trap success). Male: female ratios for both species did not differ significantly from 1:1. Age distribution of foxes revealed a large number of young individuals, possibly reflecting a rapidly growing population in response to cessation of a prolonged drought. Average weight for skunks was 620 g for males and 500 g for females. Average weight for foxes was 2.00 kg for adult males and 1.88 kg for adult females; males consistently weighed more than females across all age classes and seasons. Fox pups grew rapidly, reaching full weight as young adults in their first winter. The low rate of success in trapping skunks, in conjunction with data from visual sightings, suggests the relative rarity of the island spotted skunk on Santa Cruz Island and warrants further monitoring of the subspecies.
10.2307/3671591|The abundance of the bay anchovy, Anchoa mitchilli, was studied at a series of stations in Pueblo Viejo Lagoon, Veracruz, Mxico, during 1988 to 1990. We collected 27,359 individuals with a total weight of 22,900 g in monthly and 24-h samples (a total of 216 sample collections). Anchoa mitchilli was the dominant species and formed 55% of the total number of fish caught. Their abundance did not show a significant correlation with any of the measured environmental factors (salinity, temperature, dissolved oxygen, and transparency) of the lagoon. The abundance of bay anchovy did not show a well-defined spatial pattern, but we observed greater abundances near the lagoon inlet. Peaks of abundance occurred during September and October with a general increase in the rainy season. Seasonal fluctuations in abundance were linked to preceding fluctuations in local rainfall. Thus, rain and its associated influence on availability of food within the lagoon basin had a significant delayed effect on bay anchovy abundance. The bay anchovy was collected in significantly greater abundances during night hours. This nocturnal activity pattern might be related to predator avoidance. /// La abundancia de la anchoa Anchoa mitchilli fue estudiada en una serie de localidades en la Laguna de Pueblo Viejo, Veracruz, Mxico, desde 1988 a 1990. Se colectaron 27,359 individuos con un peso total de 22,900 g en muestreos mensuales y ciclos de 24 horas (lo que representa un total de 216 muestras). Anchoa mitchilli fue la especie dominante y comprendi el 55% del nmero total de peces capturados. La abundancia no mostr correlacin significativa con ningn parmetro ambiental (salinidad, temperatura, oxgeno disuelto, transparencia) de la laguna. La abundancia de la especie no mostr un patrn espacial bien definido, pero en general los mayores valores se registraron en las zonas cercanas a la boca. Se presentaron pulsos de abundancia en nmero y peso durante septiembre y octubre, con un aumento general en la poca lluviosa. Las fluctuaciones estacionales de la abundancia estuvieron precedidas por las fluctuaciones de las lluvias. As, la lluvia y su influencia asociada con la disponibilidad de alimento dentro de la laguna, tena un efecto retrasado significativo sobre la abundancia de esta especie. La abundancia fue significativamente mayor durante la noche y probablemente esto represente una estrategia de la especie para evitar depredacin.
10.2307/3671592|We monitored seven female desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus crooki) by using radio telemetry in the Belmont and Big Horn mountains, Arizona. We examined habitat use, size of seasonal ranges, predation by coyotes, and behavior, and identified fawning and fawn rearing habitat. Female desert mule deer preferred mountainous vegetation associations and avoided creosote flats (Larrea tridentata) during fawning. Seasonal ranges were smaller during the two weeks postpartum (x = 3.75 km<sup>2</sup>) than during the two weeks prior to fawning (X = 6.71 km<sup>2</sup>). Female desert mule deer were less active during daylight two weeks postpartum compared to the two weeks prior to fawning. Females during fawning were not any closer to water than during the remainder of the year.
10.2307/3671593|Data from a 402 base-pair region of the cytochrome b gene of the mtDNA genome were used to investigate the degree to which Geomys breviceps breviceps is genetically differentiated from populations of G. b. sagittalis. The data indicated that both subspecies are monophyletic and are separated by a relatively high degree of mtDNA sequence divergence (X = 7.93%). These data suggest that divergence between the two subspecies of G. breviceps began 1.7 to 2.2 million years ago, during the early Pleistocene.
30054365|We measured relative predation pressure on lizard species at high and low elevations in south-central Mexico using (1) frequency of sightings of potential predators, (2) survivorship of marked lizards, and (3) Schoener's index of predation intensity, which corrects for predator inefficiency. All three measures indicated heavier predation at low compared to high elevations. We measured length and thickness of tails and the shear force required to elicit tail autotomy of species at both elevations. We analyzed our results in two ways: ignoring and including phylogenetic effects. The non-phylogenetic analysis of tail length indicated no clear relation between tail length and predation, but the phylogenetic analysis drew a clearer picture and showed that lizard species from low elevations under heavier predation had longer tails than those from high elevations with less predation, even after correcting for phylogenetic constraints. Neither analysis identified a relation among tail thickness, phylogeny, and predation. Both analyses indicated that ease of tail autotomy was greater in lizard species from low elevations and heavier predation than in those from higher elevations with lighter predation. A distinct phylogenetic pattern to the force required to elicit tail autotomy was observed, and its relation to predation persisted even after correcting for phylogenetic constraints. One low elevation species, Sceloporus gadovae, is a tail autotomy specialist and thickens the original proximal tail base following tail autotomy. Subsequent autotomy of this thickened tail base occurs even more readily. /// Medimos el nivel relativo de la depredacin de especies de lagartijas en elevaciones altas y bajas en el centro-sur de Mxico usando (1) la frecuencia de avistamientos de depredadores potenciales, (2) la sobrevivencia de lagartijas marcadas, y (3) el ndice de Schoener de la intensidad de depredacin, que da la correccin de la ineficiencia de los depredadores. Las tres medidas indicaron que la depredacin era ms fuerte en las elevaciones bajas que en las altas. Medimos la longitud y grosor de las colas, y la fuerza transversal necesaria para desencadenar la autotoma de las colas en las especies de ambas elevaciones. Analizamos nuestros resultados en dos formas: ignorando e incluyendo efectos filogenticos. El anlisis no filogentico no indic una clara relacin entre la longitud de la cola y la depredacin, pero el anlisis filogentico di una imagen ms clara y mostr que las especies de lagartijas bajo depredacin ms fuerte tienen colas ms largas que las con menos depredacin, an despus de corregir por restricciones filogenticas. Ningn anlisis identific una relacin entre el grosor de la cola, filogenia, y depredacin. Ambos anlisis indicaron que la facilidad de la prdida de la cola era ms alta en especies de lagartijas de las bajas elevaciones y depredacin ms fuerte. Se observ un patrn filogentico distinto de la fuerza requerida para desencadenar la autotoma de la cola, y su relacin con la depredacin persisti an despus de corregir por restricciones filogenticas. Una especie del sitio bajo, Sceloporus gadovae, es una especialista de la autotoma de la cola, y hace ms gruesa la base proximal o original de la cola despus. La autotoma subsequence de esta base ms gruesa de la o cola occurre an mas fcilmente.
30054366|Rana muscosa (mountain yellow-legged frog) is one of a number of amphibians around the world that reportedly have declined in numbers in recent years in seemingly well-protected environments. In Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks, California, two study areas comprising the headwaters of seven creek systems were surveyed for R. muscosa and Pseudacris regilla (Pacific chorus frog) in 1978-1979 and again in 1989. R. muscosa was found at 27 sites greater than 200 m apart in 1978-1979, but at only one site in 1989, and the population at this site disappeared by 1991. In contrast, P. regilla was found at 15 to 17 sites both times. A comparison of 21 historical (1955-1979) and recent (1989-1990) records scattered throughout the parks showed that R. muscosa remained at only 11 of these sites in 1989-1990. A similar comparison of 24 historical and recent records elsewhere in the Sierra Nevada showed that R. muscosa remained at only three sites. We conclude that R. muscosa has disappeared from about half of its historical localities in Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks during the past three decades, and has been extirpated in some drainages. The magnitude of decline appears to be even more pronounced outside the parks. The causes for these declines are not clear.
30054367|Sexual dimorphism was examined in collared lizards (Crotaphytus collaris) from three widely separate localities in Oklahoma. Sexual dimorphism of body size (snout-vent length, SVL) and five other morphological characters were quantified. The three populations showed significant differences in sexual size (SVL) dimorphism. Sexual dimorphism in head length, head width, front leg length, hind leg length, and tail length were measured at each site separately by calculating regressions of each character against SVL for the females and calculating residuals for each male. Multivariate sexual dimorphism was examined using discriminant function analysis (DFA). Pairwise comparisons, together with DFA, indicated that dimorphism varied across populations, with each population showing a significantly different pattern of dimorphism in the five characters. This mosaic of sexual dimorphism suggests different selective mechanisms for these three populations.
30054368|Floral maturation, the pollination system, extent of selfing and outcrossing, and fruit set of Abronia macrocarpa Galloway, a federally and state endangered species, were examined. The perianth consists of five pink sepals fused around the ovary and extending to form a narrow floral tube averaging 2.0 cm in length. Nectar is secreted at the base of the floral tube. Anthers occur positioned approximately 1.0 cm above the stigma. Flowers open at 1500-1600 h. A sweet floral odor is present once the flowers begin opening, increases in intensity towards dusk and remains strong during the night. Flowers close at approximately 0900-1000 h. Correlations of floral morphology and observed floral visitor activity indicate that hawkmoths and noctuid moths are pollinators. Plants were experimentally crossed autogamously, geitonogamously and xenogamously. Fruit resulted only from xenogamous crosses, indicating that A. macrocarpa is self-incompatible. The percentage of viable pollen is relatively high (ca. 94%) yet achene set is low (28%-66%), suggesting a reduced fecundity.
30054369|Vegetation composition and forage productivity were studied on two Chihuahuan desert ranges with different management histories. They involved the conservatively grazed New Mexico State University College Ranch, and adjoining intermediately grazed Bureau of Land Management(BLM) ranges north of Las Cruces in southcentral New Mexico. Conservative and intermediate grazing involved about 30 and 50% average use by livestock of the key forage species, respectively. A major focus of this study was the influence of stocking rate on recovery of native perennial grasses on rangeland with moderate amounts of honey mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa Torr.) (College Ranch) compared to areas heavily dominated by mesquite (BLM). In fall of 1982 total perennial grass standing crop averaged 182 kg/ha and 36 kg/ha on the long-term conservatively (CG) and intermediately grazed (IG) ranges, respectively. By the fall of 1990 perennial grass standing crop had increased to 349 kg/ha and 159 kg/ha on the CG and IG ranges, respectively. Mesa dropseed (Sporobolus flexuosus Thurb. Rybd.) and black grama (Bouteloua eriopoda Torr.), two important Chihuahuan Desert forage species, had greater standing crop on the CG than IG range throughout the 1982-1991 study period. Our data indicate that some mesquite-dominated ranges in the Chilhuahuan Desert are responsive to both favorable rainfall and conservative stocking if residual perennial grasses remain, and that livestock grazing is sustainable under utilization levels that involve removal of one-third of the current year's growth of key forage species (black grama, dropseeds, threeawns). On coarse sandy soils with a high canopy cover of honey mesquite, brush control may be necessary to initiate range recovery.
30054370|Abert squirrels (Sciurus aberti aberti) induce green needle losses through their "twig clipping" behavior while feeding on ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) trees. Inner bark of terminal and lateral pine shoots is a diet item that squirrels consume year around. Squirrels prefer pine seeds from ovulate cones, but cones are seasonal and cone crops are highly variable from year to year. These two factors lead to varying amounts of induced green needle losses from certain trees selected as "feed trees." During the 1987 cone year, trees produced few cones on the study site. To meet nutritional needs squirrels increased their usage of inner bark. During the 1988 cone year, as squirrels foraged on the seeds of an abundant cone crop, the induced green needle losses and nitrogen losses decreased by 62% from the previous year. Loss of green needles reduces photosynthetic surface area and nutrient storage sites.
30054371|Dens are important ecological characteristics of carnivores, yet little is known of the denning ecology of the island spotted skunk, an insular endemic subspecies whose continued existence is uncertain. Den characteristics and patterns of use were quantified for the island spotted skunk of Santa Cruz Island by locating eight radio-collared individuals. Skunks readily excavated dens in a variety of substrates, including earth and roots beneath shrubs, cavities in rocks, open grassy areas, road cuts, human-made structures, and trunks and roots of oaks. Individual skunks used several dens distributed throughout their home ranges. Some dens were used by more than one skunk, yet only females shared dens simultaneously. Overall, skunks seemed opportunistic in their den-site selection, suggesting that dens may not be a limiting factor for island spotted skunk populations.
30054372|We captured 38 intraspecific pairs of five species of small mammals in single-capture Sherman live traps during 76,508 trap nights over 14 combined years in four separate studies in Texas and Arkansas. While random nonsynchronous encounters cannot be completely ruled out for double-capture events in single-capture live traps, double-capture data meeting one or more of the following restrictive criteria may best be interpreted as the result of close pair or social traveling: 1) no interspecific double captures, 2) a nonrandom sex-age association between pairs captured together, 3) recaptures of pairs previously caught together, 4) a small proportion of double to single captures, and 5) no more than two animals captured together in one trap. The double captures reported here largely meet the above criteria. We also captured four intraspecific pairs of small mammals in three sizes of snap traps during 81,311 trap nights over 4 years in a fifth study. Data from double captures in snap traps provide stronger indirect evidence of close social traveling in small mammals than is available from live traps.
30054373|We observed extensive decortication of roots and root crowns of dead, uprooted ocotillos, Fouqueria splendens, in desert areas of eastern San Diego Co., California. This damage appeared to result from subterranean feeding activities of the valley pocket gopher, Thomomys bottae. To ascertain the cause of this damage and evaluate its extent and significance, we examined the association of tunneling by pocket gophers with living ocotillos and the degree of damage to the roots and root crowns of dead plants on study plots on stream terraces, bajadas, and hillsides with residual soils. On stream terraces, ocotillos were large and low in density, most large plants showed pocket gopher tunneling at their base, the ratio of dead to living plants was high, and dead plants showed considerable root and root crown decortication. On bajadas, plants were smaller and their density higher, pocket gopher digging activity was less frequent, the ratio of dead to live plants was lower, and the degree of root damage was less. On hillsides, ocotillos were small and highly variable in density, pocket gopher activity was sparse, the ratio of dead to live plants was low, and root damage was light and infrequent. These observations suggest that herbivory by pocket gophers is an important determinant of ocotillo density in the western Colorado Desert, perhaps limiting the abundance of this species in stream terrace habitats that are most favorable for growth.
30054374|High larval mortality has plagued efforts to raise razorback suckers (Xyrauchen texanus) in a Lake Mohave, Arizona-Nevada backwater. Observations indicate odonate nymph densities may be high enough to impact larval survival. In laboratory tests conducted in aquaria, damselfly (Coenagrionidae: Enallagma sp.) and dragonfly (Libellulidae: Tramea sp.) nymphs consumed 81% and 76% respectively of 11.8  0.7 mm total length larval razorbacks in 7 days compared to 12% mortality in controls. Larger razorback larvae (14 to 15 mm TL) were less susceptible than smaller fish, showing 53% mortality versus 18% in controls. Extensive growth of sago pondweed {Potamogeton pectinatus) may exacerbate predation effects in the backwater, by allowing odonates access to more of the water column.
30054386|We examined effects of 2 concentration on germination of Texas wildrice (Zizania texana), an endangered plant endemic to the spring fed, thermally constant San Marcos River. Seeds had significantly higher germination at 0.1, 1.0, and 2.0 ppm 2 and lower germination at 3.0, 4.0, and 5.0 ppm O2. Depth and substrate significantly influenced percent germination; seeds buried in clay had the highest percent germination and seeds placed on the surface of sand had the lowest percent germination. At each of three different time intervals (3, 6, and 12 weeks after planting), seedlings grown in clay had significantly greater leaf area than seedlings grown in sand. These data show 2 level to be an important environmental cue for Texas wildrice. Low 2 levels trigger germination in anaerobic sediments; such sediments ultimately provide the most suitable substrate for growth.
30054387|Cyprinella lutrensis is a widespread and complex minnow taxon of the central United States and Mexico. Nuptial chromatics have been considered important in definitions of taxa within this complex in Mexico, but geographic variation in color of lutrensis north of Mexico has not been detailed until now. During the reproductive season for lutrensis, I collected peak nuptial males from Iowa and Nebraska southward through its range to the Rio Grande, and documented color characteristics for 17 discrete parts of the body and fins. A preliminary principal components analysis (PGA) of 42 locations indicated that previously identified "yellow" populations in Kansas and Missouri were extreme outliers. Reduction of the data set to 39 sites with best developed "red" red shiners resulted in a PCA in which populations from the central Great Plains formed a homogeneous core group with respect to male chromatics. Geographically more isolated populations in central and west Texas and New Mexico were more peripheral in multivariate space; i.e., they were more distinctive with respect to nuptial coloration.
30054388|Levels of genetic variation and divergence among five species of cyprinodontid fishes endemic to waters associated with Pluvial Lake Sandia, Nuevo Leon, Mexico, were evaluated by means of protein electrophoresis. The five species include Cyprinodon alvarezi and the monotypic genus Megupsilon from the Potosi Basin and three species of Cyprinodon from Sandia Basin. Megupsilon was highly divergent from the four species of Cyprinodon. Allele distributions support previous conclusions from morphology that the Potosi pupfish (C. alvarezi) is the sister species to a clade comprising the species from the Sandia Basin. Wild populations of all four species of Cyprinodon exhibited moderate to high levels of genetic variation = 0.023 to 0.091), as did a sample of Megupsilon 0.034) from a captive population. The implications for genetic conservation are briefly discussed. /// Los niveles de variacion gentica y divergencia entre cinco especies de peces cyprino-dntidos endmicos a cuencas asociadas al Lago Pluvial Sandia de Nuevo Len, Mexico, se evaluaron por medio de electroforesis de protenas. Los cinco especies incluyen prinodon alvar ezi y el gnero monotipico Megupsilon del Bolsn de Potos y tres especies de Cyprinodon del Bolsn de Sandia. Megupsilon result altamente divergente de las cuatro especies de Cyprinodon examinadas. Las distribuciones de los alelos apoyan las conclusiones hechas anteriormente de 1a morfologa donde el cachorrito del Potos alvarezi) es 1a especie hermana de las especies del Bolsn de Sandia. Las poblaciones silvestres de las cuatro especies de Cyprinodon exhiban niveles de variacin gentica entre altos y moderados {H = 0.023 a 0.091), como hizo una muestra de Megupsilon (H = 0.034) de una poblacion cautiva. Las inplicaciones para 1a conservacin gentica se discuten brevemente.
30054389|Specimens of three species of mice, Peromyscus truei, P. maniculatus and Perognathus parvus, were collected for 39 months in the midst of a 6-year drought in the White Mountains of eastern California. Because of low trapping success and a sex ratio favoring males, it was deduced that population densities were low. Breeding rate, based on the ratio of surviving subadults to adult females and on the frequency with which pregnant females were captured, was also low. Litter size appeared to be unaffected by the drought conditions but the number of litters per season was probably reduced relative to non-drought years and young-of-the-year were generally not involved in reproduction. It was not known if all adult females had litters every year. The breeding season, as determined by presence of pregnant individuals, was abbreviated; it began in March or April and rarely extended beyond July. There were neither unusual absolute values nor unexpected seasonal changes in total body mass, body composition, mass of liver, adrenals, kidneys, or reproductive organs. A few P. truei and P. maniculatus had large spleens and there was more than an order of magnitude variation in splenic mass. This may have indicated the presence of parasites although no signs of ill health were observed in individual mice. It is affirmed that water availability should be considered a proximate or ecological factor that can affect the birth rate and timing of breeding, especially its termination, in small mammal populations.
30054390|The cave bats of the state of Yuctn, Mxico, consist of 17 species. During a one-year study that included the exploration of 36 caves, 14 species were found using caves as day roosts and another two were captured at cave entrances by netting at night. Some species, such as Natalus stramineus, and three species of mormoopids, were found only in the deepest, hottest, and most humid sections of caves, forming large colonies. Conversely, species such as Peropteryx macrotis and Artibeus jamaicensis were found in more exposed areas, forming small groups. There was an overall positive association among the species in terms of cave use, and several pairs showed significant association. This is a consequence of species selecting similar sites and not an indication of any interspecific ecological interaction. Most species in Yucatn are integrationist, occupying caves where species richness is high. Contrary to what has been recommended for the country of Mxico, a local conservation strategy for the cave bats of Yucatn should concentrate on large caves that harbor several species. /// La fauna de murcilagos cavernicolas de Yucatn, Mxico, consiste en 17 especies. Durante un estudio de un ao de duracin, se exploraron 36 cuevas de este estado y se encontraron 14 especies de murcilagos usando las cuevas como refugio diurno. Otras dos especies fueron encontradas volando cerca de las entradas de las cuevas durante 1a noche. Algunas especies, como Natalus stramineus y tres especies de mormopidos, fueron encontrados formando grandes colonias nicamente en las secciones ms profundas, calientes y hmedas de las cuevas. Por el contrario, otras especies, como Peropteryx macrotis y Artibeus jamaicensis se encontraron formando grupos pequeos o medianos en sitios ms expuestos. Se encontr una asociacin positiva general entre las especies de murcilagos, y 1a mayora de los pares de especies presentaron tambin una asociacin significativa en cuanto a su uso de las cuevas. Esta asociacin es resultado de que la mayora de las especies tienen requerimientos similares y no refleja una interaccin ecolgica interespecifica. La mayora de las especies son inte-gracionistas y se refugian en cuevas con una alta riqueza de especies. En contradiccin con lo que se ha recomendado para la conservacin de murcilagos caverncolas de todo el pas, una estrategia local de conservacin deber concentrarse en 1a proteccin de las cuevas ms grandes que albergan varias especies de murcilagos
30054391|Movements of seven pronghorn were monitored in Chihuahuan Desert using radio telemetry to determine closest distance to water, home range size and habitat use. Distance to dosest water source for all seasons averaged 2,667  164 m. Adults ranged farther from water sources during summer than fall, winter or spring. Home range size for all animals averaged 2,259  656 ha and ranged from 938 to 3,773 ha. Yearlings had larger home ranges than adults, but ranges did not differ between males and females. Pronghorn showed a preference for grass-mesquite-yucca and grassland communities but mesquite communities were important for fawning.
30054392|Microgeographic variation in 16 cranial and two postcranial characters of the white-footed mouse (Peromyscus leucopus) was examined at eight sites in southwestern Tennessee. Measurements were recorded to the nearest 0.01 mm from 371 adult specimens. Univariate and multivariate Statistical procedures were used to analyze data. Significant interlocality variation was shown by all characters examined. Relative to the degree of intraspecific heterogeneity, bullae width, greatest skull depth, and rostral height had the highest F-ratios. Lowest .F-values were found for width between the second molars, mandibular toothrow length, first molar width, scapula length, anterior zygomatic width, mandible height, and greatest optic foramen length. A matrix of correlations among characters was computed, and the first three principal components were extracted. These components accounted for 91.7% of the total phenetic variance in the character set. A three-dimensional projection of localities onto the first three principal components revealed a pattern of morphologie variation unrelated to geographic proximity as well as major habitat types and broad climatic variables. Patterns of local variation may be expected to be less predictable and differ from those found on larger spatial scales.
30054393|We studied the burying beetle Nicrophorus investigator (Coleoptera: Silphidae) in field experiments at 2,900 m in the Rocky Mountains and found that N. investigator prefer to bury small mouse carcasses located in sunny as opposed to shaded habitats. Larvae experimentally reared in the field in shaded conditions weighed significantly less at the same age than did larvae reared in sunlight, presumably due to the effect of lower ground temperature on developmental rate. Decreased developmental time for broods in sunlight may increase the future reproduction of adults that tend broods. Carcass weight was positively associated with proportion of carcasses buried by beetle pairs. Carcass weight was not correlated with locating time. Beetles did not bury carcasses less than 16 g, suggesting a minimum acceptable size. Beetles coerced into burying carcasses < 16 g (by weighting carcasses with steel shot) did not successfully rear broods. There was a significant positive correlation between carcass mass and brood mass. Thus, the carcass selection choices made by the burying beetle directly influence their reproductive success. Studies of interactions with other members of the carrion community suggest a variety of interactions. Competition with another Silphid beetle, Thanatophilus lapponica, may be reduced by the significantly more rapid discovery of carcasses by N. investigator. Some species of ants may benefit N. investigator by removing fly eggs from carcasses before burial.
30054394|Males of the neotropical millipede Nyssodesmus python guard females for up to several days following copulation. The majority of the adult population (69%) was found in a mated (guarding) pair at any given time. The sex ratio of solitary individuals was 6:7 (females: males). Body sizes of paired and solitary individuals did not differ for either sex, suggesting that mating success does not depend strongly on body size. Females were larger than males. Body sizes of paired females and males were positively correlated (r = 0.22). Laboratory experiments showed that solitary individuals are receptive to mating. We discuss these observations in light of theory about the evolution of mate-guarding behavior.
30054395|Nest sites of Bachman's Sparrows (Aimophila aestivalis) in pine plantations in central Arkansas had greater tree density and less forb cover than non-nesting sites, but nesting sites could not be separated from non-nesting sites using multivariate analyses. At the microhabitat level, sides of nests had greater vegetation density between 0-60 and 0-180 cm than random points or nest entrances. Most nests were either partially (38%) or completely (55%) domed and most entrances were oriented to the north. Nest design was not affected by degree of concealment, nesting year, or nesting season, but grasses and forbs were taller around domed nests than at partially domed nests. No significant relationships among nest success, nest design, vegetation structure of the macrohabitat or microhabitat were found. This suggests that random predation and/or variation in predator density may have existed.
30054396|Habitat use and activities of wintering Canada geese (Branta canadensis), lesser snow geese (Chen c. caerulescens), and greater white-fronted geese (Anser albifrons frontinalis) were studied in Refugio County, Texas during October through February 1990-1991 and 1991-1992. Contrasting rainfall during the two study seasons appeared to affect food availability, habitat use, and number of geese observed. Nearly 7 times more geese were recorded during the wet winter of 1991-1992 than during the dry winter of 1990-1991. Geese selectively used (P < 0.10) improved pasture during October through February 1990-1991; although geese exclusively used disced sorghum fields (69% of study area) until late November 1990, they shifted to improved pasture (3% of study area) during December through February. Sprouting vegetation was more available in disced sorghum fields during 1991-1992, when geese selectively used (P < 0.10) disced sorghum during both fall and winter. Disced sorghum was the most intensively used habitat during both winters. Percent of time spent feeding by geese did not differ (P > 0.10) among habitats; geese spent >60% of their diurnal time foraging in disced sorghum fields.
30054397|I compared total counts of summer resident birds conducted in 1939, 1973 to 1977, and 1989 on a pristine isolated island of white firs (Abies concolor) on Clark Mountain, San Bernardino County, California. Avian species richness and biomass fluctuated dramatically during the entire 50-year interval, as well as between 1973 and 1977. Only three species, Mountain Chickadee (Parus gambeli), Yellow-rumped Warbler (Dendroica coronata) and Western Tanager (Piranga ludoviciana), were recorded in all seven censuses. The chickadee, the sole permanent resident, was relatively stable in numbers over all censuses. In contrast, summer resident species showed pronounced annual changes in abundance. Even during years of peak numbers, density of nesting birds was the lowest reported for a montane coniferous island in the western United States. Relative abundance in the 1970s was correlated with regional range expansions of several species, possibly in response to increased precipitation. Conversely, low numbers in 1989 were associated with widespread drought. In agreement with insular equilibrium theory, the small Clark Mountain avifauna is vulnerable to chance extirpation and high turnover. Species richness, however, showed no hint of equilibrium. Specimen-based identifications of subspecies and species of colonists demonstrated that the intermediate location of Clark Mountain encourages colonists from three major mountain systems-Great Basin Ranges-Rocky Mountains, Sierra Nevada-Coast Ranges, and southern Arizona-Sierra Madre Occidental.
30054398|Brushpiles are commonly recommended to provide cover for wildlife, yet little quantitative information exists concerning wildlife use of brushpiles or designs that promote wildlife use. We studied bird use of brushpiles in California from 1986 to 1988. Although 29 species used brushpiles, golden-crowned sparrows (Zonotrichia atricapilla), rufous-sided towhees {Pipilo erythrophthalmus), white-crowned sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys), California quail (Callipepla californica), brown towhees (Pipilo fuscus), and Bewick's wrens (Thryomanes bewickii were most frequently encountered. High-use brushpiles had greater area and height, were located closer to blackberry (Rubus sp.) brambles, and consisted of fewer logs and more branches and limbs than low-use brushpiles. A logistic regression model correctly classified 79% of the brushpiles as high or low use for songbirds. A logistic regression model for quail alone correctly classified 69% of the brushpiles. Most (73%) high-use quail brushpiles also were high-use songbird brushpiles.
30054399|Despite the federal ban of DDT since 1972, some southwestern populations of peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus anatum) still exhibit extremely low natural production and continue to accumulate high levels of DDE. During 1985, we collected 35 potential species of migrant and resident prey of peregrine falcons in north-central New Mexico to determine if local peregrine falcons are exposed to DDE on the breeding grounds. Thirteen (37.1%) of the 35 species pools contained DDE residues >1.0 ppm. Say's phoebe (Sayornis saya; 22.01 ppm), killdeer (Charadrius vociferus; 13.49 ppm), American pipit (Anthus rubescens; 11.63 ppm), western meadowlark (Sternella neglecta; 6.25 ppm), and Brewer's blackbird (Euphagus cyanocephalus; 5.28 ppm) pools had DDE residues >5.0 ppm. DDE concentrations were not significantly related to prey diet but migration status was a significant effect with DDE residues lowest in residents (geometric mean = GM = 0.08 ppm), intermediate in weakly migratory species (GM = 0.37 ppm) and highest in strongly migratory species (GM = 1.63 ppm). Based on results of this study and a review of the literature, we conclude that peregrine falcons utilizing this study area are still faced with a potential source of DDE contamination.
30054412|The middle reach of the Niobrara River Valley in north-central Nebraska is situated within a grassland biome but is known for a co-occurrence of numerous plant and animal species of western, eastern and boreal forest biomes. Ten herbaceous and 13 woody sites were sampled for plant species composition and the data analyzed with TWINSPAN. A biogeographical literature review was undertaken to provide further information on vegetation in this region. Together, the analytical data and biogeographical literature review were used to construct a community classification. Seven major community types are recognized: Sandhill, Mixed Prairie, Tallgrass Meadow, Upland Pine, Juniper, Hardwood, and Streambank Communities. The origin and persistence of these communities are attributed to historical factors such as glacial and dispersal events which brought species to the area and to certain geomorphological, hydrological and other environmental factors which maintain appropriate microhabitats.
30054413|Gestation periods and birth weights of desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni, cremnobates, and mexicana) were compared to those of Rocky Mountain bighorns (0. c. canadensis). No differences in the length of the gestation periods were found but desert bighorn lambs weighed significantly less than Rocky Mountain bighorn lambs. Neither desert nor Rocky Mountain bighorn sheep deviated significantly from regressions of gestation and litter weight on maternal weight for a wide range of Caprinae. However, fetal growth rates of desert bighorn, as estimated by litter weight divided by gestation length, were low compared to other Caprinae.
30054414|Because of its extensive range and the diverse habitats occupied in North and South America, the puma {Puma concolor) is an excellent animal in which to document the presence of sexual dimorphism in size, elucidate the pattern of geographic variation in secondary sexual dimorphism in size, and examine the relationship between geographic variation in sexual dimorphism and environmental components, including sympatric taxa. The dataset included 14 cranial and 5 mandibular measurements for 1,201 pumas. Of the 19 morphologic characters, all exhibited secondary sexual dimorphism in size; males were significantly larger than females. No apparent pattern of geographic variation in sexual dimorphism was detected, and none of the environmental variables was correlated with sexual dimorphism. Because none of the broad patterns of environmental variation coincided with the pattern of variation in sexual dimorphism, the causes of sexual dimorphism likely are associated with intraspecific and interspecific interactions. Sexual selection seems to be the most probable explanation for secondary sexual dimorphism in size of the puma.
30054415|Spatial and seasonal variation in prey use by coyotes was assessed for four sites in north-central Kansas. Our analysis was based on 1,389 scats collected at monthly intervals from March 1990 through February 1991. Mammals were the most frequent prey at all study areas (present in 99 to 100% of scats), whereas much less frequent use was recorded for insects (3 to 19%), fruits (3 to 9%), birds (3 to 5%), fish (0 to 1%), and reptiles (0 to <1%). Proportional use of insects and fruits differed among sites, while that of mammals, insects, fruits, and birds differed among seasons. Based on similarity measures, coyote diets were highly similar among both sites and seasons for major prey taxa, mammalian prey orders, and rodent prey species. Similarity of occurrence in scats of major prey taxa was due to frequent use of mammals; similarity of occurrence of mammalian prey orders to frequent use of rodents and lagomorphs; and similarity of occurrence of rodent prey species to frequent use of cotton rats, prairie voles, and harvest mice.
30054416|We examined reproductive success, nest failure, and timing of nest initiation for secondary cavity-nesting bird species in south-central Oklahoma. Habitats in study areas were old fields with patches of tallgrass prairie and fragments of oak woodland. By monitoring 150 nest boxes from 1989 to 1993, we studied a total of 334 nests, including those of Carolina chickadees (Parus carolinensis), tufted titmice (P. bicolor), Bewick's wrens (Thryomanes bewickii), eastern bluebirds (Sialia sialis), and house sparrows (Passer domesticus). Carolina chickadees and tufted titmice were single-brooded and nested early in the breeding season. The parids had the highest nesting success of the species studied. Nest initiations for eastern bluebirds extended from early March to late July, and eastern bluebirds were generally double-brooded and occasionally triple-brooded. Bewick's wrens and house sparrows had the lowest nesting success. Nest failures increased as the breeding season progressed primarily due to an increase in snake prtion and nest abandonment. Except for bluebirds and house sparrows, interspecific competition for nest sites is unlikely given differences in habitat preferences and timings of nesting among the five species.
30054417|Surveys from automobiles of wintering red-tailed hawks Buteo jamaicensis were conducted at a tallgrass prairie site in Noble County, Oklahoma, from October through March of 1983-1984, 1984-1985 and 1985-1986. Indices of population density of red-tailed hawks were higher than in any area of North America reported to date. The endemic subspecies B. j. fuertesi comprised 82 percent of all observations. Immature red-tailed hawks were rare. Red-tailed hawks were frequently observed in pairs and some pairs and individual hawks frequented the same territories during successive winters. Information from our surveys indicate that the subspecies B. j. fuertesi breeds farther north than has been previously reported.
30054418|We observed wild pinyon jays (Gymnorhinus cyanocephalus) in and around residential areas near Flagstaff, Ariz. (Goconino Go.) to document seasonal and age-related patterns in cache and recovery behaviors. Caching was most prevalent during fall, while recovery was most common in winter. Most caching bouts (72%) involved multiple cache sites (X = 4.24 sites/caching bout). Fewer than 20% of recovery bouts involved multiple sites (X = 1.24 sites/recovery bout); thus, clumps of caches were not depleted systematically during recovery. About 60% of caching bouts included only cache sites in the ground; during the remainder of caching bouts, at least some caches were made above ground, most often in tree bark. Above-ground sites were most commonly used in winter and may be preferred when cold temperatures and snow make ground sites inaccessible. Aggressive interactions between pinyon jays occurred during 16% of caching bouts and 26% of recovery bouts. Over 25% of all recovered items were recached instead of being eaten; recaching may help jays to avoid cache theft and to control temporary food resources. Juvenile pinyon jays made their first caches three weeks after fledging; these early caches were of non-food items. Caching of non-food items lasted up to 14 weeks after fledging. This may allow young jays to develop skills necessary for successful caching as adults.
30054419|We determined the distribution, relative abundance, and macrohabitat use of amphibians and reptiles, and examined age- and sex-specific differences in microhabitat use in the Huachuca Mountains, southeastern Arizona. In addition, we established a repeatable, extensive method to monitor the impact of military maneuvers and other land-use activities on amphibians and reptiles. Time-constrained surveys located 15 species, with Sceloporus jarrovii accounting for 60% of all sightings. Urosaurus ornatus, the second most abundant species, accounted for only 12% of the sightings; only one amphibian species (Bufo punctatus) was located. S. jarrovii was common in vegetation types with pine as a major component; it was relatively less abundant in oak-juniper; and it was absent in oak-juniper savannah. Urosaurus ornatus was the most abundant species in oak-juniper and brush types. Cnemidophorus was the most common species in the savannah vegetation type. There were no significant differences in the distribution by vegetation type within or between age and sex classes for S. jarrovii, although juvenile males appeared to concentrate in pinyon-oak-juniper. Juveniles of both species differed from adults in that they were found significantly farther from water and tended to be in areas of less vegetative cover. Sample-size analysis showed the cumulative number of new species observed began to stabilize after about 80% of the sampling effort was expended for all three vegetation types analyzed. The mean number of animals observed per person-hour stabilized after about 70% of the sampling effort for all three vegetation types analyzed.
30054420|Hypothesized explanations for sexual dimorphism in size have suggested various evolutionary forces as causal factors. The present study examines the contributions of sexual variation in energy allocation and timing of reproduction to the growth and size of southwestern earless lizards. Growth curves were developed for snout-vent length (SVL), weight, and the ratio of these measures to examine sexual differences in size at emergence from hibernation, asymptotic size, and characteristic growth rates. The energy content of an average clutch of eggs was determined, converted to the equivalent energy content in body tissues, and used to determine the expected increase in size of females if the energy was used for growth instead of reproduction. Parameter estimates from growth curves for all measures of size differed only for asymptotic value. The patterns indicate female growth slows at an earlier age than males, probably because they must devote energy to reproduction earlier in life. The energy content in eggs can account for 63% to 90% of the difference in size depending on the hypothetical age at which females can divert stored energy to reproduction. These results suggest that hypotheses of sexual dimorphism that incorporate the cost of and timing of reproductive investments are viable alternatives to those employing sexual selection.
30054421|Fifty-two Texas rat snake eggs from a communal nest represented four putative clutches (8, 8, 12, and 24 eggs) which differed in mean egg mass at collection, hatchling mass, residual yolk mass, fat body mass (adjusted for hatchling mass), snout-vent length, ventral scute number, and length of laboratory incubation interval. Mean laboratory incubation intervals for clutches ranged from 55 to 79 days; total incubation interval could not be known because exact laying dates were unknown. Hatchling mass was positively correlated with both egg mass and snout-vent length. Residual yolk mass averaged 10.0% of hatchling mass and did not differ among clutches. Sex ratio was skewed in one clutch: 19 of 23 hatchlings were male. Hatching success was 86.5% but might have reached 96.2% had no eggs been opened.
30054422|Fountain darters, Etheostoma fonticola, maintained in aquaria, deposited adhesive eggs on yarn strands of artificial spawning mops. Eggs were collected by hand from the mops and hatched in small plastic containers. Diameters of the eggs ranged from 1.2 to 1.4 mm. The eggs had an indented egg envelope and a wide perivitelline space. Eggs incubated at 20C started hatching on day 4 after fertilization and continued hatching through day 7. Mean total length of larvae at hatching was 3.6 mm. Larvae had 15 preanal myomeres and between 18 and 20 postanal myomeres. Pigmentation consisted of scattered melanophores over the body and ventral yolk sac, and melanophores radiating ventrally from the oil globule along the vitelline network, and complete melanophore coverage of the optic lobe. Larval development was similar to other members of the darter subgenus Boleichthys.
30054423|Our efforts to develop techniques to rear Devils Hole pupfish, Cyprinodon diabolis, in captivity led to a better understanding of ecological relationships in the natural habitat. Fish from autumn and spring collections were allowed to spawn in laboratory aquaria. Those collected in spring produced five times more eggs. Spawns yielded one individual from an autumn collection and two from a spring collection that survived to adulthood. The extreme low egg viability experienced under laboratory conditions probably occurs differentially over the spawning habitat in nature. Shallow areas supporting algae populations that produce substantial diel variation in oxygen saturation produce most larvae. Larval production declines as diel oxygen variation declines. Throughout the deeper waters, the relatively constant oxygen saturation of about 40% is probably lethal to eggs. Population expansion in nature may also be limited by adult predation on larvae. High mortality of eggs and larvae may be important life history characteristics that help keep the population within carrying capacity in a habitat that does not allow emigration. Individual pupfish probably spawn during a single period of their lifetime of approximately one year. These life history characteristics apparently limit the potential of artificial propagation as a reliable recovery tool. Our experiences with captive propagation and analyses of data from Devil's Hole lead to the following conclusions regarding management of refugia. Since constant conditions of oxygen saturation may not be optimal, refugium populations should be provided with spawning substrates in areas where algae populations produce diel variation in oxygen concentrations. Escape cover for larvae seems essential. The relationship between diel variation in oxygen, temperature, and hatching success requires further examination.
30055164|Pelocoris has been thought to be represented in Texas predominantly by a single species, P. femoratus, with an enigmatic Montandon record of P. biimpressus from North America (probably Texas) in 1898. Herein, we clarify the presence of P. biimpressus, add P. carolinensis to the list, and provide a distribution map and illustrations to distinguish the three species. /// Se ha pensado que el gnero Pelocoris est representado en Texas predominantemente por una sola especie, P. femoratus, con un nico registro de P. biimpressus en Norte Amrica (posiblemente en Texas) por Montandon en 1898. En este artculo clarificamos la presencia de P. biimpressus, registramos adems P. carolinensis y proporcionamos un mapa de la distribucin de las tres especies e ilustraciones para diferenciarlas.
30055165|A new species of bdelloid rotifer, Macrotrachela sonorensis is reported from a desert in Sonora, Mexico. The new species is characterized by the shape of its spurs, its short and curved foot, the shape of its head during creeping and the dorso-lateral spines on the antenna pseudo segment /// Macrotrachela sonorensis una especie nueva de rotferos bdelloideos es descrita. Esta especie fue encontrada en una regin desrtica del Estado de Sonora, Mxico. Esta especie nueva para 1a ciencia, se caracteriza por la forma de sus espuelas, su pie corto y curvo, la forma de la cabeza cuando el animal esta deslizandose, y por las espinas dorso-laterales del pseudo-segmento de la antena
30055166|Studies of plant water- and salinity-relations suggest that halophytic riparian shrubs may recover from burning more efficiently than do mesophytic trees. A compilation of fire records from the lower Colorado River floodplain was used to assess change in riparian community structure resulting from fire. Approximately 37% of the riparian vegetation in the study area burned during the 12-year period evaluated. Fire extent was associated with the area of Tamarix ramosissima habitat burned, whereas fire affected disproportionately small areas formerly dominated by Prosopis spp. Tamarix and Tessaria sericea were dominant in post-fire riparian communities. Tessaria replaced riparian trees in response to fire in habitats dominated by Populus fremontii/Salix gooddingii and Prosopis. Species turnover was low over the post-fire periods evaluated, so the replacement of riparian forests by water- or salinity-stress tolerant shrubs can be considered long-lived.
30055167|Achenes of the winter annual Lindheimera texana (Texas star) were dormant at maturity in mid-May, and they came out of dormancy when subjected to alternate wet-dry or to continuously dry conditions at simulated habitat temperatures during summer. As achenes first began to come out of dormancy in July, they germinated to 1% to 5% in light only at 12/12 h daily thermoperiods of 15/6C, 20/10C and 25/15C. In October, achenes germinated to 19 to 81% at 15/6C, 20/10C and 25/15C and to 1 to 8% at 30/15C and 35/20C. Achenes given wet (1 day)-dry (14 days) treatments twice each month during summer germinated to 86% at simulated habitat temperatures (28/15C) in October, while those kept continuously dry all summer germinated to only 15%. Since achenes came out of dormancy during summer, and optimum temperatures for germination were 20/ 10C, 25/15C and 28/15C, achenes can germinate in the field as soon as soil moisture becomes nonlimiting in October and November. After 16 weeks of burial in moist soil at 15/6C and 20/10G, achenes were still dormant; however, 75% to 94% of those buried at 5C, 25/15C and 30/15C were nondormant. Thus, achenes have the ability to come out of dormancy during summer or winter, and the species appears to have the potential to behave as a nonstrict winter annual. However, summer drought seems to restrict germination to late autumn and early winter, thus L. texana behaves as a strict winter annual.
30055168|Root distribution was determined in terms of biomass, length and root hairs/mm root for populations of sideoats grama (Bouteloua curtipendula) and common curlymesquite {Hilaria belan-geri) in the Edwards Plateau and Rolling Plains resource regions of Texas. There were few significant differences in incremental (100 mm increments to a depth of 1 m) or total root biomass or root length between species at either site. Sideoats grama had a significantly greater root hair density than curlymesquite from the soil surface to a depth of 600 mm at both sites. Root hair density was greatest, for both species, at the Rolling Plains site. Greater root hair density of sideoats grama may be an adaptation allowing greater and more rapid access to water, as suggested by concurrent studies of water use within lysimeters with sideoats grama or curlymesquite. This suggests that greater root hair density of sideoats grama confers an adaptive advantage with respect to soil water use compared to curlymesquite, and may be partially responsible for its regional dominance in advanced succession communities.
30055169|Four sites that varied with respect to grazing history were studied during 1990 and 1991 on an isolated 8,000 ha peninsula in Glen Canyon National Recreation Area. Density and basal area of Oryzopsis hymenoides decreased with increasing grazing intensity while density and foliar cover of Gutierrezia sarothrae increased on grazed sites. Perognathus longimembris was the most abundant rodent species trapped on all sampled sites and demonstrated a 50% decrease in abundance at the heavily grazed site compared to the nongrazed site. Peromyscus maniculatus was the second most abundant rodent species recorded and increased with increasing grazing intensity.
30055170|We evaluated indices of relative abundance for North American badgers (Taxidea taxus) on the Rocky Mountain Arsenal, Adams Co., Colorado by comparing scent-station visitations, spotlight surveys, headlight surveys, road mortality, and a trapping index to a minimum density estimate of 0.27 badgers/km. Live capture, although time and labor-intensive, provided a minimum relative density estimate and a trapping index to relative abundance. We captured 15 of 18 (83%) badgers during July and August 1990. Twelve of 21 (57%) captures of badgers were in traps scented with Carman's Canine Call, which may have potential for increasing capture success. If badgers are captured to estimate relative density or a trapping index, we suggest standardizing lures and seasons, and reporting if badgers were targeted or captured incidentally.
30055171|Two fossil peccaries from the Oven Site, an archaeological site in San Juan County, northwestern New Mexico, belong to Platygonus compressus LeConte. Bone collagen from one specimen yields a radiometrie age of 12,060  1780 YBP. This is the third report of P. compressus from the San Juan Basin and the first documented record from New Mexico. The Oven Site Pleistocene P. compressus from New Mexico is among the youngest radiometrically dated records from North America. It raises the possibility that a peccary canine from the nearby Sambrito Village archaeological site also may have been a fossil, not a trade item from southern Arizona or Mexico.
30055172|We utilized exploratory regression models to examine the influence of marsh-edge characteristics on feeding by two size classes of juvenile bay whiff, Citharichthys spilopterus. The model for smaller juveniles (29 mm SL) indicated that salinity, current velocity, standard length, and median depth were the primary influences on feeding success. A model for larger juveniles (30 to 50 mm SL) incorporated only two independent variables, time of capture and current velocity.
30055173|We developed habitat suitability indices for depth, velocity, substrate, and cover for adult and juvenile roundtail chub (Gila robusta) and razorback sucker (Xyrauchen texanus) (220-290 mm TL) in Fossil Greek, and adult roundtail chub in Wet Beaver Creek, central Arizona. Adult roundtail chub in Fossil Creek selected wider ranges of velocity (0 to 0.96 mps) and depth (0.9 to 3.1 m) than juveniles (0 to 0.61 mps velocity and 0.9 to 1.5 m depth). Adult roundtail chub in Fossil Creek selected small-boulder and gravel substrates, and large instream objects. Juveniles selected a variety of substrates, particularly sand, but showed little selection for bedrock and large boulders. They did select for other types of cover. Adult roundtail chub in Wet Beaver Creek selected low velocity areas and did not use velocities >0.14 mps. Most adults in Wet Beaver Creek selected depths of about 2.1 m. Few fish selected greater and lesser depths. Adults selected bedrock and large boulder substrates and instream cover. Razorback sucker in Fossil Creek chose velocities <0.3 mps and showed the highest selection for velocities of 0.15 mps. They selected depths between 1.5 and 2.7 m, most commonly choosing depths of 2.0 m. Most razorback suckers occurred over silt substrates, but small and large boulders and bedrock were also used. Sand and gravel were not utilized. Razorback suckers used large, instream objects and instream overhead cover but also used other types of cover.
30055174|Evaluation of the visual method of determining population size and status of threatened Ozark cavefish in Logan Cave (AR) was found to be deficient, as more cavefish were visual implant tagged during six months of the study (n = 80) than had been observed in that locality in the previous 10 years. Untagged cavefish were collected at a consistent rate throughout the sampling period, and a similar number of tagged individuals disappeared, indicating migration into and out of the accessible reach of Logan Cave. Movement of individual cavefish within the cave ranged up to a kilometer over the six months of the study, including up- and downstream movement over a small (0.3 m) cascade, with large fishes moving greater distances than smaller fishes. This indicates Ozark cavefish are mobile, capable of extended movements into reaches of the cave inaccessible to the investigators, and perhaps into the karst aquifer itself. It also suggests that the Logan Cave population of Ozark cavefish is greater than the number of individuals occupying the cave habitat at any one time. Protection for this threatened species should include the aquifer as well as the immediate cave habitat.
30055175|In 1953, C. Hubbs and colleagues surveyed fishes from a large number and variety of freshwater habitats throughout the state of Texas. Thirty-three years later, he replicated sampling at 129 of these sites within the Red, Sabine, Neches, Trinity, Brazos, Colorado, Guadalupe, San Antonio, Nueces, and Rio Grande drainages. Care was taken to match original sampling effort, times, and dates at each location. Relative proportional abundances of families showed numerous changes from 1953 to 1986 within the ten basins. Mantel tests comparing family abundances in 1953 and 1986 datasets showed little overall change statewide. Sites in the eastern half of the state that did not contain marine species showed less significant positive covariation between early and recent datasets than those in western Texas. Rank plots of species diversity (H') for the two regions of the state showed a consistent trend of decreased diversity over time in eastern Texas. A similar plot for west Texas showed decreased diversity with time, but only within species-poor assemblages. The analyses reveal reductions in biological diversity on a local scale, but also reveal relative stability in statewide and regional ichthyofaunas. Despite the encouraging large-scale trends, several Texas fishes went extinct and others are threatened as a result of local habitat disturbances, including alteration of instream flow, eutrophication, and exotic species introductions.
30055141|From April 1990 to February 1991 we studied avifauna of a creosotebush community located in Cuatrocienegas Basin, Coahuila, in northeast Mexico. The avifauna of the basin was compared with that of other localities in the Chihuahuan Desert, using Sorensen's method. We recorded 35 species: 21 permanent residents, 8 summer residents (probably breeding), 5 migratory species, and 1 occasional. Four species are new records for the creosotebush biota: Cooper's hawk, great crested flycatcher, house wren, and painting bunting. We considered the Larrea tridentata habitat in Cuatrocienegas Basin to be richest in the Chihuahuan Desert. /// El presente trabajo se desarroll en el Valle de Cuatrocinegas, Coahuila, NE de Mxico, de abril de 1990 a febrero de 1991, en el bioma de Gobernadora {Larrea tridentata). Se analiza la avifauna presente y se compara con otras localidades del Desierto Chihuahuense. Se establece su permanencia estacional. En la comparcin de localidades se utiliz el mtod de Sorensen. Se registraron 35 especies: 21 residentes, 8 veraniegas, 5 migratorias y 1 ocasional. Cuatro especies son nuevo registro para el bioma de Gobernadora: Accipiter cooperi, Myiarchus crinitus, Troglodytes aedon y Passerina ciris. Se concluye que la avifauna del bioma de Larrea tridentata en el Valle de Cuatrocinegas, Coahuila, como una de las mas ricas en el Desierto Chihuahuense.
30055142|External morphological characteristics, growth patterns, and seasonal body mass dynamics of the California Valley coyote {Canis latrans ochropus) were investigated in the southern San Joaquin Valley, California. Total length, tail length, hind-foot length, ear-from-notch length, and body mass were measured on 290 coyote carcasses collected from 1985-90 during a predator control program. Morphometric values for pups (<1 year) increased most rapidly in late spring and early summer, and growth appeared to cease by early winter. Growth patterns of male and female pups were similar. Mean measurements obtained from pups in winter did not differ significantly from those for yearlings (1 year) and adults (2 years) indicating that most structural growth is probably completed in the first year. Mean body mass did not vary among age classes for female coyotes, but did vary among age classes for males with adults being significantly heavier than yearlings and pups. Mean mass of adults and yearlings did not vary among seasons.
30055143|A population of desert woodrats (Neotoma lepida) in the eastern Mojave desert was studied for a period of three years. All 101 dens located within a 2.7 ha plot were identified, and trapped on a roughly bimonthly schedule. Den occupancy rates (occupied dens/dens trapped) fell from a high of almost 50% at the initiation of the study to a level of approximately 5-10% due to the effects of a severe drought. Body mass of individuals remained roughly constant during this period, however, suggesting that mortality was not due to starvation. Mean survival on the site was 5.4 months, with no significant difference between the sexes. Several characteristics of the den appeared to influence survivorship, including the primary structural material and overall size. Occupancy and survivorship rates were significantly higher in Opuntia than in other substrates, presumably because of increased predator protection. Reproductive output was strongly curtailed during most of the study. Woodrats reproduced only once in 1988, and not at all in 1989. The reproductive failure coincided with a lack of annual plant production and seed set by perennials such as Yucca schidigera.
30055144|Lythrurus snelsoni, the Ouachita Mountain shiner, is an endemic fish species in the Little River system of Ouachita Mountains of southeastern Oklahoma and southwestern Arkansas. We collected distribution, abundance, and associated habitat data for 74 sites throughout the range of this species. Univariate analyses identified four environmental variables that significantly predicted the presence of L. snelsoni, while a multivariate analysis identified a suite of six environmental variables that together correctly classified the presence or absence of L. snelsoni at 60 of 74 collection sites. Another group of six environmental variables explained 65% of the variation in L. snelsoni abundance across its range. In general, L. snelsoni presence was strongly associated with high elevation streams with boulder substrates. Abundances tended to be highest in small streams with good riffle and pool development. L. snelsoni was common across its geographic range. However, the species' restricted distribution renders it vulnerable to large-scale watershed disturbances such as clearcutting and reservoir construction.
30055145|Replacement experiments between woody seedlings of an early and late successional species (Acacia smallii, huisache, and Ceitis laevigata, Texas sugarberry) were conducted using four combinations of two soil nitrogen levels and two light levels. Data indicate that soil nitrogen had a greater influence than light level on laevigata growth, and light level had a greater influence on A. smallii growth than did soil nitrogen. There were few negative effects of seedlings of either species on the other. Interactions that were detected were due to a lack of A. smallii growth not interference. High soil nitrogen and high light levels caused greater growth in both species; however, C. laevigata displayed the greater overall growth stimulation. A stable equilibrium between the species existed in the low soil nitrogen-high light treatment where the growth of both species in mixture was the same as in monoculture. In the three other treatments, C. laevigata growth was greater in mixture than in monoculture, but the growth of A. smallii was the same in mixture as in monoculture. During early successional events when soil nitrogen is low and soil surface light levels are high, the growth of the early successional species, A. smallii, is not reduced by competition with C. laevigata seedlings for soil resources. Late in succession, when total soil nitrogen is higher and surface light levels are lower, conditions favor the growth of the shade tolerant laevigata seedlings. Data suggest that the exclusion of A. smallii seedlings late in succession is due to the inability of A. smallii to grow at low light levels below the canopy rather than competition between seedlings of the two species for soil resources.
30055146|A phytosociological analysis based on the Braun-Blanquet method, supported by numerical analyses, was used to compare the salt marshes of the North American Pacific coast and the Iberian Peninsula found in areas of Mediterranean climate. The results show a strong floristic, physiognomic, ecological and zonal similarity between the detected plant associations; these similarities allow us to describe a common zonal pattern that can be considered a Mediterranean model of zonation. Some zonal, structural, taxonomic, physiognomic and floristic vicariation between Pacific and Mediterranean halophilous plants and associations are shown. /// Mediante un anlisis fitosociolgico basado en el mtodo de Braun-Blanquet apoyado por anlisis numrico, se ha realizado una comparacin entre los saladares del Pacfico y de 1a Pennsula Ibrica situados bajo clima mediterrneo. Los resultados obtenidos muestran una fuerte semejanza floristica, fisiognmica, ecolgica y zonal entre las asociaciones encontradas. Estas similitudes permiten exponer un modelo de zonacin que puede ser considerado como un modelo zonal mediterrneo.
30055147|Accurate estimations of tree age based on size are useful for hydrologic and geomorphic studies of riparian environments. The use of stem size to predict age for Fremont cottonwood (Populus fremontii) is assessed based on increment cores and stem diameter measurements along two rivers of the southwestern United States. Predictive models for tree age are established for Cottonwood Creek, Utah and Red Tank Draw, Arizona, and are compared to previously published regression equations. Results indicate that good age-size relationships exist for trees in short reaches with uniform geomorphic site conditions. However, these correlations may not hold for entire drainage basins, or larger geographic areas. Further study is needed to examine the spatial patterns of age-size relationships in riparian areas of the Southwest.
30054436|Texas represents the northeastern distributional limit for Naucoridae in the New World, except for Pelocoris which ranges to extreme northeastern United States and Canada, and Ambry sus mormon mormon which occurs as far northward as northcentral Nebraska. The indigenous fauna is more diverse than in any other state, a reflection of overlapping nearctic/neotropical influences and the high degree of physiographic heterogeneity. Accounts of 13 species and subspecies belonging to four genera and three subfamilies include initial records of Ambrysus circumcinctus concavus and Ambry sus mormon australis from the U.S., and of Ambrysus circumcinctus circumcinctus and Limnocoris lutzi from Mexico. Eleven taxa range southward into Mexico, reflecting strong neotropical affinities. Multiple distributional patterns are manifested within four broad categories. Former generalizations regarding naucorid distribution in Texas and southwestern United States are revised based on indications from the present study. Within the state, the epicenter lies on the Edwards Plateau (Balconian biotic province) of central Texas, where nine taxa occur. Climate, physiography, and geology in this region promote an abundance of favorable habitat in the form of clear, perennial, upland streams. Habitat suitability diminishes away from the Plateau, and diversity is only moderate in adjacent portions of neighboring biotic provinces to the west, east, and south, and greatly reduced or nil to the north and in more remote regions (except for certain mountain ranges of western Texas). Ecological factors that influence local naucorid occurrence (current velocity, substrate characteristics, affinity for aquatic vegetation, interspecific competition), and others important in a broader sense (temperature, turbidity, salinity, water quality degradation) are discussed. For individual taxa, information on morphology, taxonomy, diagnostic characteristics, distribution, biology, and ecology is presented, and an illustrated key to adults is provided. /// Texas representa el lmite al noreste de distribucin para Naucoridae en el Mundo Nuevo, salvo para Pelocoris que recorre hasta el noreste extremo de los Estados Unidos y Canada, y Ambrysus mormon mormon que ocurre tan lejos hacia el norte como el norte central de Nebraska. La fauna indgena es ms diversa que en cualquier otro estado, un reflejo de influencias de traslapo nercticas/neotropicales y el grado alto de heterogenidad fisiogrfica. Acontecimientos de 13 especies y subespcies perteneciendo a cuatro gneros y tres subfamilias incluyen registros iniciales de Ambrysus circumcinctus concavus y Ambrysus mormon australis de los Estados Unidos, y de Ambrysus circumcinctus circumcinctus y Limnocoris lutzi de Mexico. Once taxa se extienden haca el sur en Mexico, reflejando fuertes afinidades neotropicales. Se manifiestan mltiples modelos distribucionales en cuatro categoras amplias. Conceptos anteriores en cuanto a 1a distribucin de Naucoridae en Texas y el sudoeste de los Estados Unidos son revisados a hase de indicaciones del estudio presente. Dentro del estado, el centro distribucional ocurre en 1a Meseta Edwards (provincia biolgica Balconiano) de Texas central, donde nueve taxa ocurren. El clima, 1a fisiografa, y 1a geologa en esta region fomentan una abundancia de habitat favorable en la forma de corrientes claras y anuales de tierras altas. La idoniedad de habitat disminuye al alejarse de la Meseta, y la diversidad es moderada solamente en porciones contiguas de colindante provincias biolgicas al oeste, oriente, y sur, y muy reducida o ausente al norte y en regiones ms lejanos (excepto para ciertas cordilleras occidentales de Texas). Factores ecologicos que influyen en 1a ocurrencia local de Naucoridae (velocidad del corriente, caracteristicas del substrato, afinidad para vegetacin acutica, competencia interespecifica), y otros factores importante en un sentido ms amplio (temperatura, turbidez, salinidad, degradacin de 1a calidad del agua) se discuten. Para taxa individuales, informacisobre morfologa, taxonoma, caractersticas diagnsticas, distribucin, biolgica, y ecologa se presenta, y se proporciona una clave grfica para adultos.
30054437|Reasons for the atypical distribution of Stipa leucotricha (Texas winter grass), a C3, cool season perennial bunchgrass, strictly south of 35N latitude are unknown. Germination requirements, light requirements, and competitive abilities of S. leucotricha were investigated to better understand the biology and possibly explain its persistence in an area reported as more suitable for C4 species. Aerial, chasmogamous seeds (florets) were dormant, but when scarified with concentrated sulfuric acid for 15 minutes, germination increased from 18.5  7.7% to 82.7  4.6% which suggests seed bank longevity uncharacteristic of most grasses. Aboveground, belowground, and total dry mass of seedlings were significantly, linearly related to light level, with greatest dry mass produced in the highest light treatment. Intraspecific competition for both S. leucotricha and Schizachyrium scoparium (little bluestem, a co-occurring C4 perennial) was found at a density as low as 2 plants per pot. Interspecific competition studies demonstrated that growth of both species was greatest in the high light and high nitrogen treatment, and reduced at low light and low nitrogen levels. Comparisons of species differences between mixtures and monocultures indicated that S. leucotricha was a better competitor at high light and nitrogen levels. At low levels of nitrogen and light interspecific competition was equal. These characteristics do not fully explain its distribution strictly south of 35N latitude; however, its ability to compete with a climax prairie grass species under conditions typical of late successional grassland communities, along with growth during a time of reduced temperature, increased soil moisture, and dormancy of its competitors are possible causes of the southern distribution of this C3 grass.
30054438|This report updates information on variation and distribution of Rana megapoda Taylor. This distinctive, large frog is known to occur only in southwest central Mexico in the adjoining states of Jalisco, Nayarit, Michoacan, and Guanajuato. External morphological features are used to distinguish R. megapoda from other sympatric or nearby allopatric species of Mexican ranid frogs. /// Este reporte pone al corriente la informacin sobre la variacin y la distribucin de Rana megapoda Taylor. Esta rana grande y distinta ocurre nicamente en la regin suroccidental central de Mexico en los estados adyacentes de Jalisco, Nayarit, Michoacn, y Guanajuato. Las caracteristicas morfolgicas externas son utilizadas para distinguir R. megapoda de otras especies mexicanas de rnidos simptricas o aloptricas cercanas.
30054439|Cui-ui {Chasmistes cujus), an endangered catostomid endemic to Pyramid Lake, NV, recently experienced a 19-year hiatus in reproduction due to low water levels in its primary spawning stream, the Truckee River. The effects of this bottleneck on the genetic variability of the cui-ui population were examined using starch-gel electrophoresis. Nine 1950 (pre-bottleneck) and four post-bottleneck (1969 and 1977) age-class fish were analyzed at 55 presumptive allozyme loci. Allozyme data were also available for 31 additional post-bottleneck fish. Pre-bottleneck cui-ui were polymorphic at two loci and exhibited an estimated heterozygosity of 0.0081, and post-bottleneck fish were polymorphic at four loci and exhibited heterozygosity estimated at 0.0036. One allele was detected in the pre-bottleneck fish but not in post-bottleneck cui-ui at the IDH-2* locus. Thus, post-bottleneck cui-ui appear reduced in genetic variation as compared to pre-bottleneck fish. Conservation recommendations for the genetic management of the Pyramid Lake cui-ui population are discussed in light of these results.
30054440|Because coyotes (Cants latrans) have been reported to be more vulnerable to capture and to engage in more investigative behavior in low-use areas of their home range, we monitored eight radio-collared coyotes on the Rocky Mountain Arsenal, Adams Co., Colorado to determine if a large clumped food resource, deer (Odocoileus spp.) carrion, increased coyote visitations to low-use areas within their home ranges. We used a vehicle-mounted null-peak antenna system (VMA) and a remote radio telemetry receiver with an attached data logger computer (DL) to monitor coyotes around five carcass sites. Coyote visitations to VMA carcass sites varied among pre-treatment, treatment, and post-treatment periods, but the number of 24-h periods that coyotes visited DL sites did not differ among periods when carcasses were present or absent. Deer carrion was effective in attracting and keeping coyotes in less familiar areas of their home ranges; seven of eight (88%) coyotes visked deer carrion for average durations of 110 min at VMA sites and 115 min at DL sites. No coyotes visited carcasses outside of their home ranges. Because coyotes visited carcass sites in unfamiliar areas of their home ranges for extended time periods, carrion may enhance visitations to scent stations, capture, and delivery of baits to coyotes.
30054441|We assessed differential use of roadside fencerows and contiguous pastures by small mammals in southeastern Oklahoma during September 1991, February 1992, and May 1992. Eight species of rodents and shrews were represented in 338 individuals captured; however, the four most common species comprised 96% of all captures (Sigmodon hispidus, 64% of all captures; Peromyscus maniculatus, 13%; Mus musculus, 12%; and Reithrodontomys fulvescens, 7%). No seasonal differences in use of fencerows and pastures were found for total captures of any of these four species. Sigmodon hispidus, M. musculus, and R. fulvescens selectively used fencerows; P. maniculatus chose pastures. No differences between males and females in use of fencerows and pastures were noted for any species. However, significant differences were found in use of fencerows and pastures among different size classes of S. hispidus; small males (<60 and 60-110 g) and females <60 g and > 110 g were significantly more abundant in fencerows than pastures.
30055091|The reproductive biology of the viviparous Scincid lizard, Eumeces copei, from high elevation sites in the Eje Neovolcanico was studied. The species exhibits a pattern of asynchronous gonadal activity, with males showing maximal testicular volume during the spring and summer, and females beginning vitellogenesis in August and ovulating in late autumn. Courtship and mating occur in the summer. The development of embryos occurs during the winter with births in late spring. This reproductive pattern is common in other montane Mexican lizards. Individuals reach sexual maturity after a year. Clutch size, as determined from counts of vitellogenic follicles, was significantly different from the clutch size obtained by counting embryos in utero. A correlation between actual clutch size and snout-vent length (SVL) of females was found. Males exhibited a significantly smaller SVL than females. /// Se estudi la biologa reproductive de la especie escincida vivpara Eumeces copei de sitios de elevaciones altas para el Eje Neovolcanico. Esta especie presenta un patron de actividad gonadal asincrnica, con el desarrollo mximo de volumen testicular de los machos durante la primavera y el verano, y la vitelognesis de las hembras empezando en agosto, con la ovulacin al final del otoo. El cortejo y apareamiento ocurren en el verano. El desarrollo de los embriones sucede durante el invierno con nacimientos tardos en la primavera. Este patron de actividad es comn en las especies de Mexico que habitan las montaas. El perodo en el que los individuos alcanzaron la madurez sexual fue mayor de un ao. El tamao de la carnada, determinado por el conteo de los folculos vitelognicos fue significativamente diferente del tamao de la carnada obtenido por el conteo de los embriones en el tero. Se encontr una correlacion entre el tamao de su carnada y la longitud hocico-cloaca (LHC) de la hembra. Los machos presentaron una LHC significativamente menor que la de las hembras.
30055092|A new species of Nototriton of the nasalis group is described from cloud forest on Montana de Santa Barbara, Honduras. The new species has until now been identified as N. nasalis. Nototriton nasalis, the apparent dosest known relative of the new species, is known only from the Sierra de Omoa in northwestern Honduras. The new species is distinguished from the other members of the nasalis group by the combination of having large nostrils, a long head and limbs, and large adult size. /// Una nueva especie de Nototriton del grupo nasalis se describe de bosque nublado de Montaa de Santa Brbara, Honduras. La nueva especie hasta ahora ha sido incluida en N. nasalis. Nototriton nasalis, la pariente aparentemente ms parecida a la nueva especie, se conoce solamente de la Sierra de Omoa en el noroeste de Honduras. La nueva especie se distingue de los otros miembros del grupo nasalis por su combinacin de narices grandes, cabeza y extremidades largas y tamao grande.
30055093|House construction by Neotoma micropus was examined on a site in Harmon County, Oklahoma. Ten houses were monitored for changes in areal extent, height, and volume between March 1989 and January 1990. Total house volume and volumes of four quadrants of each house were compared. All houses had significant differences in volume among quadrants by season but no patterns could be discerned. Two houses showed a significant difference in total volume among seasons. Female woodrats appeared to be more sedentary because they were recaptured at the same house more frequently and at more houses than males. Relative percent cover contributed by vegetation type near each house was calculated by season, with herbaceous plants providing the most cover, followed by cacti and trees. Significantly more herbaceous plants, sticks, and cattle dung were added to houses in the fall as compared to other seasons. Cacti represented over half of the material used in construction and sticks approximately one quarter, with lesser amounts of herbaceous material and cattle dung. Comparisons of component volumes with field measurements indicated that dead air space provided a significant component of total house volume. Variation in air and soil temperatures were found to be significantly larger than for the internal house temperatures. No significant relationships were found between total house volume and nest temperature.
30055094|To better understand the impacts of red imported fire ants (Solenopsis invicta) on native populations of small mammals, we investigated how three rodent species in south Texas (Baiomys tay lori, Peromyscus leucopus, and Sigmodon hispidus) respond to the presence of fire ants. We conducted behavioral trials in a Y-maze that had crushed fire ants in one arm, and examined correlations between rodent and fire ant densities in the field. Baiomys tay lori significantly avoided (71% of trials) the arm of the maze containing fire ants. Sigmodon hispidus and P. leucopus were indifferent to the presence of fire ants in the Y-maze. Peromyscus leucopus also selected refuge sites that were no further from fire ant mounds than expected based on chance. We observed no significant relationships between rodent and fire ant densities on live trapping transects. On the trapping grid, the results were dependent on the level of scale analyzed. At the 400 m2 scale level, there were significantly fewer fire ant mounds surrounding trap stations where B. tay lori was captured. All species combined were negatively associated with fire ant mound density at the 900 m2 level. These results suggest that interactions between fire ants and rodents can vary between different species and across different scales of analyses.
30055095|The effect of seeding previously burned lands on rodent and leporid abundances was investigated on Naval Petroleum Reserve No. 1, Kern County, California between 1990 and 1993. Rodents and leporids are important prey items for the federally endangered San Joaquin kit fox (Vulpes macrotis mutica). One-half of a 263-ha area that burned in 1988 was mechanically drill seeded in December 1990 while the other half was left unseeded. A 162-ha control site was established adjacent to the unseeded burn site in June 1991. Vegetative characteristics were recorded for each site by measuring vascular plant cover, live shrub density, herbaceous production, plant species richness, and plant community similarity. Rodent use of sites was assessed through live-trapping three times each year. Leporid use of sites was assessed using line transect surveys and pellet counts. Vascular plant cover was similar among sites for all years. Live shrub density increased on all sites through time and was significantly higher on the seeded burn site in 1993. No consistent trend was detected in herbaceous production on sites. Plant species richness was similar on all sites although the number of species generally increased on each site through time. Plant community similarity between sites changed through time, but was nearly equal by 1993. Abundance of rodents and leporids was not consistently higher on any site. More kangaroo rats were captured on the unseeded burn site than on the seeded burn site, but differences were significant for only three trapping sessions. Results indicate that seeding did not affect either rodent or leporid abundance on burned land. Vegetative characteristics of the sites may not have been sufficiently different to produce detectable differences in either rodent or leporid abundance.
30055096|We investigated the thermal responses (minimum flight, maximum voluntary tolerance and heat torpor temperatures) of the cicada Diceroprocta cinctifera and made comparisons to the thermal responses determined for the varietal forms D. cinctifera var. viridicosta and D. cinctifera var. limpia. All species inhabit riparian communities along the Rio Grande River or a tributary system. We found no significant difference between the mass or thermal responses of the three species. Similar thermal responses could be expected because the species inhabit similar environments and should therefore be exposed to similar thermal regimes. We conclude that although the varietal forms of D. cinctifera differ morphologically from the type species they do not differ in their thermal physiology.
30055097|Arthropod abundances, seasonality, and defoliation were measured on tarbush (Flourensia cernua) in southern New Mexico during 1990 and 1991. The arthropod assemblage on this desert shrub was dominated by five species of sap-sucking herbivores, four species of chewing herbivores, two ants, parasitic Hymenoptera, and two spider families. Species richness and abundances were highest during late summer. Several taxa present in substantial numbers at budburst in spring may overwinter on, or rapidly discover, this resource. Defoliation was caused primarily by a chrysomelid beetle (Zygogramma tortuosa) and amounted to about 30% by late summer. The arthropod functional group organization (e.g., proportions of chewing and sap-sucking herbivores, predators and detriti vores) on tarbush is similar to that measured on other shrub species using comparable techniques.
30055098|Chitrellina chiricahuae, new genus and new species, is described, based upon a single female from Spinks Cave, Cochise Co., Arizona. In general appearance, it is much like a Chitrella species, but it is easily separated from representatives of that genus by the possession of a long galea on the chelicera and by the distribution of trichobothria on the palpal chela.
30055099|We studied population levels, age ratios and foraging by wintering bald eagles (Hal-iaeetus leucocephalus) on Caballo Reservoir and compared winter populations to reservoir pool size in the middle Rio Grande Basin. During the winter of 1991-1992, eagles were present at Caballo and Elephant Butte reservoirs from December through March. The greatest number of eagles counted at Caballo Reservoir during terrestrial surveys was 39 on 23 January and during aerial surveys, 17 on 15 February. Wintering eagles were successful in 36.7% of 68 observed foraging attempts and in 53.3% of 45 foraging attempts for fish. Successful foraging attempts resulted in the capture of 22 gizzard shad (Dorosoma cepedianum), two unidentified fish, and one common merganser (Mergus merganser). Wintering eagles spent 95.3% of time perching and 4.7% of time flying. Foraging composed 13.0% of flying time. Most perched eagles (87%) were in dead cottonwood snags (Populus fremontii) near the shoreline. Between 1982 and 1992, percentages of New Mexico's wintering eagle population at Elephant Butte and Caballo reservoirs increased in size but did not correlate with January reservoir surface area.
30055100|Predation by green sunfish (Lepomis cyanellus) on plains killifish (Fundulus zebrinus) may explain why these species rarely co-occur in pools of intermittent Purgatoire River tributaries in southeastern Colorado. Large green sunfish ate 16% of plains killifish during a 24-h experiment in tanks which provided shallow and deep water, with and without simulated vegetation cover, similar to natural pools. Killifish use of deep water or cover during daylight did not differ significantly in tanks with green sunfish versus those without. No killifish were found in stomachs of test sunfish or those captured in tributary pools during daytime, but this was probably due to crepuscular feeding combined with high gastric evacuation rates. Plains killifish co-occurred with green sunfish in significantly fewer tributary pools than expected by chance in both 1987 to 1988 and 1993 to 1994. Together, our experimental and field data support the hypothesis that green sunfish can reduce or eliminate plains killifish in isolated pools.
30055101|Seventeen adult Colorado squawfish (Ptychocheilus lucius) were captured between June 1991 and October 1994 during sampling conducted on the San Juan River in New Mexico, Colorado, and Utah. Thirteen individuals were surgically implanted with internal radio transmitters. Telemetry, capture, and recapture data indicated that most adult Colorado squawfish were sedentary and had a strong affinity for a 39.0 km reach of the river (river km 228.2 to 189.2) upstream of the Colorado-Utah border. Seven fish aggregated prior to spawning in and around the Mancos River confluence (km 197.3). Eleven fish, including six of the seven that aggregated in the vicinity of the Mancos River, moved a short distance upstream to a 5.8 km reach of the river (km 214.6 to 208.8) during the probable spawning seasons (late June to mid-August). Only one radiotelemetered Colorado squawfish during our study displayed migratory behavior and then only in association with spawning. Life stages of Colorado squawfish were spatially separated, with adults generally occurring upstream of captured larvae and juvenile fish. The recent formation of a waterfall at the confluence of the San Juan River and Lake Powell, and its subsequent inundation, poses a management conundrum for all life stages of this endangered species in the San Juan River. The waterfall appears to be a physical barrier to the upstream movement of adult Colorado squawfish from Lake Powell. However, it also seems to inhibit the invasion of the lower San Juan River by lentie predators, thereby protecting early life stages of Colorado squawfish that are found almost exclusively in this section of the river.
30055102|We propose a perimeter tracing method for long-term monitoring of basal cover changes of the endangered sentry milk-vetch (Astragalus cremnophylax var. cremnophylax), a small, mat-forming herb growing on the south rim of Grand Canyon National Park. Basal cover was estimated using major and minor diameter measurements of the plant mat to either the nearest mm or half-cm. Basal area was calculated using the formula for an ellipse. Area derived from this ellipse-diameter method was overestimated by a factor of 1.24. Plant area was obtained more accurately by tracing the perimeter of the plant mat on transparent drafting film or mylar; area was derived either by weighing the mylar and converting weight to area or by digitizing the perimeter tracing. Perimeter tracings yield accurate basal cover; provide a permanent, archival product for year-to-year comparisons; and allow study of adjacent or overlying cover by other plant species.
30055116|In the Albuquerque area, New Mexico, an early Pleistocene (Irvingtonian, about 1.2 to 1.4 mya) ash bed in the Sierra Ladrones Formation of the Santa Fe Group contains an extensive fossil flora of leaves and palynomorphs. Macrofloral remains are present in the form of leaf and leaflet impressions and rhizome casts. Eight taxa were identified: Populus fremontii S., Populus angustifolia, Salix amygdaloides, Salix exigua ssp. exigua-interior, Salix gooddingii, Salix sp., Rosa sp., Crataegus sp., Prunus Virginiana L., Quercus sp. (gnsea-like), Typha sp., Celtis sp. and Betula sp. Pollen analysis of material from the fossil-bearing stratum produced eight taxa including Pinus edulis, Pinus flexilis, Celtis sp., Urtica sp., Betula sp., and unidentified members of the Gramineae, Liliaceae, Chenopodiaceae, and Amaranthaceae. A modern flora comparable with these micro- and macrobotanical remains occurs in New Mexico riparian zones at approximately 2000 m in elevation. The presence of this flora in the Rio Grande rift at an elevation of 1600 m indicates a significantly cooler and possibly wetter climate during the early Pleistocene, and confirms a far greater antiquity for the Rio Grande cottonwood bosque than previously suspected.
30055117|This paper describes an application of airborne video data with global positioning system (GPS) and geographic information system (GIS) technologies for distinguishing and mapping the distribution of sabal palm (Sabal mexicana) in the lower Rio Grande Valley (LRGV) of southern Texas. Field reflectance measurements suggested that sabal palm may be remotely distinguished from associated vegetation during the late summer and fall as a result of the presence of senesced (brown) leaves and mature fruit clusters within the canopy. Sabal palm could be distinguished on aerial color-infrared (CIR) video imagery during this phenological stage because it had a brownish-red image response. Integration of GPS with video imagery permitted latitude/longitude coordinates of sabal palm populations to be recorded on each image. Global positioning system coordinates were entered into a GIS to produce maps depicting the distribution of sabal palm in the LRGV.
30055118|Fringing many of the mountain ranges in south central New Mexico is a zone of large > 5 m high) dead alligator junipers (Juniperus deppeana) that are as much as 100 m lower in elevation than similar-sized live trees. Employing tree-ring to diameter correlated ages, the point quarter method, and elevation values, we analyzed the age, elevation, and socioecology of J, deppeana along a transect from 1520 m to 1690 m elevation on the east slope of the Organ Mountains, New Mexico. For trees established before 1890, there has been an 80 m upward displacement of their lower treeline whereas younger trees have not experienced a similar die off. From the late 1800s to 1943 the region experienced an eleven-fold increase in livestock, episodes of fuelwood cutting, and intense, droughts of less than seven years. Precipitation records document that the 1943-1971 period (with a 39 percent decrease in precipitation) was the longest drought period to affect the region since continuous precipitation records were initiated in the region; the 1947-1956 decade was 46 percent drier than the 1890 to 1991 mean. Tree-ring records indicate that 1950-1959 was the driest decade since 680 AD. During the 1943-1971 drought, the occasional wetter years produced major episodes of J. deppeana establishment; 36 of the 72 sampled trees were established in six isolated events during the 1943-1971 drought. Trees were established at lower elevations during the 1943-1971 drought than were established during the post-1971 "mesic" period. Favorable conditions for establishment and survival of younger trees were created by the reduction in grasses by drought and grazing as well as the near elimination of fires. Apparently, severe climatic fluctuations of less than 30 years duration combined with grazing do not cause lasting changes in the lower treeline of J. deppeana.
30055119|During the past 100 years, large areas of perennial grassland in the Chihuahuan Desert have been replaced by woody plants such as mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa) and creosotebush (Larrea tridentata). We investigated the short-term pattern of resource acquisition by these two dominant desert shrubs during the summer in the Jornada del Muerto Basin, New Mexico. We hypothesized that for a given size class of shrubs, nutrient uptake favors isolated plants and that larger plants have higher access to soil resources. We applied tracer solutions containing Sr and Rb (0.02 M each) to patches of soil located either beneath or beyond the canopy of isolated creosotebush and mesquite shrubs to examine the ability of these plants to acquire nutrients as a function of distance. Tracer solutions were also applied equidistant between paired shrubs to examine whether neighboring plants had equal access to soil resources. Mature foliage was analyzed for Sr and Rb at day 7, 21, and 35 after tracer application. Strontium and Rb in creosotebush increased steadily at a relative accumulation rate of 0.018 per day. Mesquite accumulation rates were lower, 0.013 per day for Sr and 0.002 per day for Rb. The highest Rb concentrations were found in small creosotebush receiving tracers beneath the canopy. Tracer accumulations by paired plants of both creosotebush and mesquite were not equal and these differences between neighboring shrubs could not be explained by variation in canopy volume. Creosotebush and mesquite had distinct uptake patterns for the two tracers indicating these species differ in surface root distribution and activity. Creosotebush appears to respond more rapidly to short-term increases in the availability of soil moisture and nutrients.
30055120|This study documents a dramatic decline in size of individuals within a Larrea tridentata population in southern New Mexico over a decade long period. It is most likely that the decline in size represents individual plants shrinking in size resulting from the death of shoot systems, especially the larger branches within these multi-stemmed shrubs. We suggest that the decline in size observed in our study area may be the initial stages of a more widespread phenomenon, driven by the desertification process that accompanies the conversion of grasslands into shrublands.
30055121|Common curlymesquite (Hilaria belangeri) is a stoloniferous perennial shortgrass. Historically the species was considered sterile and only reproductive vegetatively; however, research has demonstrated that it produces viable seed. In this study reproductive characteristics, focusing on seed production and seed rain, of common curlymesquite were compared between grazed (moderately stocked, deferred rotation grazing) and ungrazed (exclosure) areas on the western Edwards Plateau, Texas. Absolute foliar cover and density were significantly higher (P  0.05) in grazed than in ungrazed treatments. Total seed (spikelet cluster) production was also significantly higher in grazed than in the ungrazed areas on three of four sample dates. Seed production on a per plant or per absolute foliar cover basis, however, did not differ between treatments. Regression analysis indicated a strong relationship between number of seed clusters and number of culms, but not between seed production and other plant characteristics. Seed rain from common curlymesquite, as ascertained by sticky traps, was significantly greater in the grazed than ungrazed areas. High reproductive potential, as expressed by seed or vegetative propagation, may be a life-history characteristic which contributes to the persistence and successional dominance of common curlymesquite on many southwestern rangelands.
30055122|We studied the pollination biology of three species of night-blooming columnar cacti (cardon, Pachycereus pringlei; saguaro, Carnegia gigantea; and organ pipe, Stenocereus thurberi) near Bahia Kino, Sonora, Mexico, by addressing two questions: (1) What is the relative importance of nocturnal (bats, moths) and diurnal (bees, birds) pollinators for fruit and seed set, and (2) To what extent do these cacti compete for pollinators? Honeybees had the highest visitation rates to flowers of the three species but are relatively ineffective pollinators. Bats had higher visitation rates to flowers of car-don than birds, which had higher visitation rates to flowers of saguaro and organ pipe than bats. Results of pollinator exclusion experiments indicated that visits by bats accounted for most of the fruit set in cardon, visits by birds and bees accounted for most of the fruit set in saguaro, and birds accounted for most of the fruit set in organ pipe. Hand-pollination experiments suggest that fruit set in females but not hermaphrodites of cardon, a trioecious species, and organ pipe is pollen-limited, probably owing to the scarcity of bats. Crude estimates of the per-visit effectiveness of different groups of pollinators for fruit set indicate that bats are somewhat more effective than birds and much more effective than bees. Competition for pollinators between the three species of cacti is reduced by seasonal or daily phenological differences. The flowering seasons of cardon and saguaro broadly overlap, but these species differ in the times their flowers open and close (earlier at night and the next morning, respectively, in cardon) and in their nectar secretion schedules. Saguaro flowers are more available to diurnal pollinators than those of cardon. The flowering peak of organ pipe occurs much later in the spring than the other two species; its opening and closing and nectar secretion schedules are similar to those of cardon. At our study site, the importance of bats as pollinators of columnar cacti is currently much lower than in other arid zone columnar cacti. /// Se estudi 1a biologa de la polinizacin de tres especies de cactus columnares de floracin nocturna (cardn, Pachycereus pringlei; sahuaro, Carnegia gigantea; y pitaya, Stenocereus thurberi) en los alrededores de Baha Kino, Sonora, Mxico. Se plantearon dos preguntas: (1) Cul es 1a importancia relativa de los polinizadores nocturnos (murcilagos y polillas) y diurnos (abejas y aves) en 1a produccin de frutos y semillas?, y (2) Hasta qu grado, estas especies de cactus compiten por polinizadores?. Las abejas tuvieron las tasas ms altas de visita a las flores de las tres especies, pero son polinizadores relativamente poco eficientes. Los murcilagos tuvieron mayores tasas de visita a las flores de cardn que las aves, las cuales tuvieron tasas de visita ms elevadas que los murcilagos a las flores de sahuaro y de pitaya. Los resultados de los experimentos de exclusin de polinizadores, indican que los murcilagos fueron responsables de 1a mayor parte de 1a produccin de frutos de cardn, las visitas de las aves y las abejas produjeron 1a mayora de los frutos de sahuaro, y 1a mayor parte de los frutos de pitaya fue producto de las visitas por las aves. Los experimentos de polinizacin manual sugieren que 1a produccin de frutos en las hembras no hermafroditas de cardn, una especie trioica, y de pitaya est limitada por polen, debido probablemente a 1a escasez de murcilagos. Las estimaciones crudas de 1a efectividad por visita de los diferentes grupos de polinizadores en 1a produccin de frutos, indican que los murcilagos son un poco ms efectivos que las aves y mucho ms efectivos que las abejas. La competencia por polinizadores entre las tres especies de cactus se ve reducida por diferencias feno-lgicas estacionales o diarias. Las estaciones de floracin de sahuaro y cardn se sobrelapan en gran medida, pero estas especies difieren en el momento en que sus flores se abren y cierran (al anochecer y en 1a maana siguiente, respectivamente, en cardn) y en sus patrones de secrecin de nctar. Las flores de sahuaro estn disponibles a los polinizadores diurnos por ms tiempo que las flores de car-dn. El pico de floracin de pitaya ocurre mucho ms tarde en la primavera que en las otras dos especies; los patrones de apertura y cierre de sus flores y de secrecin de nctar son similares a los de cardn. En nuestra rea de estudio, la importancia de los murcilagos como polinizadores de cactus columnares, es actualmente mucho menor que en otras especies de cactus columnares de zonas ridas.
30055123|Removal of pion seeds by birds before the period of seed production was higher on a northeast-facing slope (as opposed to a level area and a southwest-facing slope), probably as a result of better perches. Arrival of migrant birds after the period of seed production eliminated differences in seed removal. Removal of pion seeds by rodents was highest on the southwest-facing slope due to higher densities of Peromyscus. On clear nights, rodents foraged preferentially near the base of the trunks. In captivity, one Peromyscus difficilis and one P. maniculatus preferred pion seeds from Pinus cembroides over those of P. discolor, and rejected empty seeds. /// La remocin de piones por aves antes de 1a temporada pionera fue mayor en una ladera con exposicin nordeste (en contraste con una con exposicin suroeste y un area plana), probablemente como resultado de mejores perchas. El arribo de aves migrantes durante 1a temporada pionera elimin esta preferencia en 1a remocin de piones. La ladera con exposian suroeste tuvo 1a mayor remocin de piones por roedores, debido a 1a mayor abundancia de stos. En noches claras, los roedores forrajearon principalmente en las bases de los troncos. En cautiverio, un ejemplar de Peromyscus difficilis y uno de P. maniculatus prefirieron piones de Pinus cembroides por sobre los de P. discolor y rechazaron piones vanos.
30055124|Twenty-three dead and dying Brazilian free-tailed bats from roosts in downtown Mineral Wells, Palo Pinto County, Texas, were tested for rabies and for anticholinesterase (antiChE) effects of or-ganophosphorus (OP) and carbamate pesticides. Seventeen of the 23 bats tested positive for rabies. The cause of death or dying in five of the nonrabid bats is unknown; however, one of the six nonrabid bats had a ChE activity level equivalent to only 27% of the control mean and may have been exposed to a pesticide. Three bats (including the bat with depressed ChE) contained sufficient ingesta to analyze for an-tiChE compounds, but no antiChE compounds could be identified in the samples. Exposure may be dermal and pulmonary as well as dietary. It is feasible that other bat deaths not explained by rabies were attributable to a pesticide but missed due to postmortem reactivation of the ChE enzyme. The largest group of rabid bats was young males (13 of 17, 76.5%), and the largest group of nonrabid bats was older females (3 of 6, 50%). All older females were nonrabid, perhaps survivors of the disease in previous years. Rabid bats had a lower mean fat index and weighed less than nonrabid bats. Four bats (not including the low ChE bat) showed external bleeding, and none was rabid; thus the incidence of bleeding was greater among nonrabid bats than among rabid bats. The four affected bats came from roosts in three different buildings, making a roost-treatment with an anticoagulant chemical seem unlikely.
30055125|In order to estimate cetacean abundance, seven vessel-based surveys were conducted in outer continental shelf and continental slope waters of the northwestern Gulf of Mexico from 1992 to 1993. Sixteen species were identified, and estimates of abundance were made using line transect methods for the most commonly seen species: sperm whales (Physeter macrocephalus), 442 (CV = 35.7%); bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus), 451 (CV = 36.5%) over the continental shelf, and 520 (CV = 56.3%) over the continental slope; pantropical spotted dolphins (Stenella attenuata), 5,876 (CV = 42.3%); and Clymene dolphins (Stenella clymene), 2,285 (CV = 60.8%). Most line transect assumptions were satisfied, or were dealt with in the analyses. The major remaining bias is the probable underestimation of sperm whale abundance, due to missed animals on and near the transect line.
30055126|Helminth community structure of Chirostoma attenuatum from two lakes of Michoacan State, Mexico, was analyzed and compared. Helminths from 72 fish were counted and collected for taxonomical determination. Helminthological record of C. attenuatum includes five species, three of them shared by fishes of both localities. Helminth communities are considered to be isolationist and depauperate due to the low values of richness, abundance and diversity obtained; the digenean Postho-diplostomum minimum was the species numerically dominant. We conclude that the differences observed in helminth community structure between localities are due to differential biotic and abiotic conditions; in Patzcuaro Lake, conditions favor the increase of fish-eating bird populations chat serve as definitive hosts to allogenic species such as P. minimum. /// La estructura de 1a comunidad de helmintos de Chirostoma attenuatum de dos lagos del Estado de Michoacn, Mxico es analizada y comparada en este trabajo. Los helmintos de 72 peces fueron contados y removidos para su determinacin taxonmica. El registro helminiolgico para attenuatum incluye cinco especies, tres de las cuales son compartidas por los peces de ambas localidades. Las comunidades de helmintos son consideradas como aislacionistas y depauperadas por los bajos valores obtenidos de riqueza, abundancia y diversidad, siendo el tremtodo P. minimum, 1a especie dominante. Conclumos que las diferencias observadas entre Ias dos localidades son debidas a las distintas condiciones biticas y abiticas encontradas; en el Lago de Ptzcuaro, tales condiciones favorecen el incremento en las poblaciones de aves ictifagas que actan como hospederos definitivos de especies alognicas tales como P. minimum.
30055127|Sexual selection theory proposes that mate-locating tactics will be driven by the temporal and spatial patterns of receptive females. I tested this hypothesis in the libellulid dragonfly, Libellula saturata, by examining two predictions: 1) that male densities should be highest at times when the probability of encountering receptive females is the greatest, and 2) that densities of males should be highest at places where females prefer to oviposit. I collected data on the spatial and temporal distribution of L. saturata at Sycamore Creek, Arizona. Variation in the temporal and spatial density of males was correlated with the availability of receptive females as estimated by number of copulations. Males did visit the streamside when receptive females were most common; significant correlations were evident on a seasonal scale as well as within the course of a day. Males also tended to aggregate at sections of the stream where receptive females were most likely to visit, both on a seasonal scale and within the course of a day. The data provide support for the hypothesis that male mate-locating tactics are sexually selected. However, there is also evidence that female behavior prevents males from maximizing their encounters with receptive females. Thus conflicts between the needs of males and females may lead to compromises in the behavior of the different sexes.
30055128|We sampled a series of contiguous riffles and pools throughout one year to examine spatial and temporal variation in stream fish assemblages on a short, mitigated reach of the Cottonwood River, Kansas. One of three riffles sampled was an artificial riffle constructed as habitat restoration in an area previously dredged of gravel. Canonical correspondence analysis demonstrated differences between riffle and pool fish assemblages, and indicated seasonal assemblage variation with no influence imparted by the artificial riffle. Current speed, water depth, substrate character, total alkalinity, and season explained most assemblage variation. Fish assemblages were similar spatially, but were seasonally variable. Riffle fish assemblages exhibited more seasonal variability than did those of pools; 59% of the total number of fishes captured in riffles were seasonally variable compared to 12% in pools. Patterns of variability in this mitigated stream reach were similar to those reported for natural streams.
30055129|Because the interior least tern (Sterna antillarum) is piscivorous, locations of colony sites and reproductive success are strongly influenced by distance to bodies of water with available forage. We examined foraging patterns and success of the least tern nesting on a salt flat in north-central Oklahoma during the 1992 and 1993 breeding seasons. Our objectives were to 1) estimate whether there were limited quantities of forage available to breeding least terns, 2) examine least tern use of bodies of water adjacent to the salt flat, and 3) identify fish species brought to colony sites and in bodies of water adjacent to the salt flat. Chicks were fed smaller fish than were brooding adults and chicks were offered more fish than they consumed. Adults did not forage away from the salt flat during incubation and brooding (peak hatching). Foraging success of terns observed fishing away from the salt flat from May to June was increased by fingerlings available at a fish hatchery approximately 12 km from the salt flat. During incubation, brooding, and fledging (July), the only location away from the salt flat where terns were observed feeding was the eastern shoreline of the Great Salt Plains Reservoir. Collections of fish dropped and left uneaten by least terns in colony sites contained six species. These collections served as an index of species selected by the least tern. The six species of dropped fish were present in all samples seined from adjacent waterways. Sizes of fish in seine samples and of fish brought to nests were smaller than those of fish found dropped and uneaten in colony sites. These uneaten fish may have been too big to consume. Quantity and quality of fish available to least terns during our study were adequate and did not appear to limit reproductive success. Forage availability may only be a limiting factor to reproductive success during drought years.
30055188|Heron and egret (Ciconiiformes: Ardeini) winter ecology was studied in coastal Louisiana. Habitat use, time-activity budgets, and foraging behavior data were collected for six co-occurring species: great blue heron (Ardea herodias), great egret (Casmerodius albus), little blue heron (Egretta caerulea), snowy egret (E. thula), tricolored heron (E. tricolor), and green-backed heron (Butorides stria-tus). Additionally, energetics models were developed for the six species to understand endogenous reserve loss during adverse weather conditions and risk of mortality. I found no habitat segregation in this species assemblage, although there was evidence of microhabitat selection based on water depth. There was an inverse relationship between numbers of herons and egrets in freshwater marshes versus intermediate and brackish marshes. This reflected high water levels in the latter marshes that forced the birds to seek suiTable foraging habitat (water depth) in more northern marshes. Larger (longer-legged) species tended to be found in deeper water, although species frequently were found together in shallow water. Time-activity budgets showed that these species spent the majority of time standing (loafing), and there tended to be an inverse relationship between body size and percent time spent foraging. Severe weather caused the birds to suspend foraging and remain sheltered from the wind. During one three-day period I observed no foraging in the five species I observed on those dates. After the storm passed I observed fewer birds, which suggests that substantial mortality had occurred. Simulation modeling predicted a 6-12% decline in body mass over a three-day fasting interval inversely correlated with body size (smaller species lost proportionately more mass), and the four smaller species each lost >10% in mass. Consequently, winter weather conditions, particularly severe storms, may be more critical for smaller heron and egret species.
30055189|I studied American avocets (Recurvirostra amencana) and black-necked stilts (Himanto-pus mexicanus) in northern Utah during 1974-1980, most intensively during 1977 and 1978. My principal study site, the Barrens Company Hunting Club, was a 205-ha alkaline marsh that supported breeding populations of about 170 avocets and 50 stilts. Avocets arrived during the last week of March; stilts arrived about a week later. Both species arrived and nested later, and departed earlier in 1977, a drought year. Some nests were relatively solitary; others were in colonies of 3-10 nests. Nests in colonies were synchronized. Stilts nested in vegetation more often (74%) than avocets (34%). Mean clutch size was 3.78 for avocets and 3.88 for stilts. Abnormal clutches of 1, 6, and 8 eggs were found. Supernormal clutches contained two size/shape classes of eggs, and were defended by more than one pair of adults. Evidence of renesting was obtained for two male avocets. The sexes shared incubation and brooding, both during the day and at night. Downy broods were attended by two adults, but 38% of juvenal-plumaged avocet broods and 48% of juvenal-plumaged stilt broods were attended by one or no adults; when one parent deserted, usually it was the female. Hatching success was 28% for avocets and 32% for stilts. Predation on eggs accounted for 57% of nest losses, and predation on incubating adults for another 11%. Flooding caused 8% of nest losses.
30055190|A common explanation proffered for reversed sexual size dimorphism among raptors is that size dimorphism allows the partitioning of prey size between the sexes and reduces intersexual competition for food. During the breeding seasons of 1990, 1991, and 1992, we compared prey captured by male and female northern goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) at 16 nests in northern Arizona. On basis of 192 prey items captured by males and 46 captured by females, we found no difference between the sexes in mean mass of prey captured, or in the distribution of prey sizes. There was no difference between the sexes in capture rates of mammals or birds; mammals accounted for 85% and 79% of the prey captured by females and males, respectively. The sexes had high dietary overlap (92%, Pianka's index), but males used the available prey species less equitably than did females (male = 0.37, female = 0.51; min 0.0, max 1.0). Prey captured in different foraging zones did not differ between the sexes. Our findings add to a growing collection of data investigating prey partitioning as an explanation for reversed sexual size dimorphism.
30055191|The Mexican anguid Barisia rudicollis was first described by Wiegmann in 1828. Since that time its ecology and life history have remained almost a complete mystery. Until recently the species was known from only five specimens. Knowledge of its habitat in the wild is from collecting reports on only two specimens, both of which were collected on the ground. Despite lack of evidence, the hypothesis has persisted in the literature that B. rudicollis is an arboreal lizard. Several authors have suggested that B. rudicollis has longer limbs, digits and claws than other members of the genus and that this difference in morphology indicates an arboreal habit. Examination of the museum collections at the Universidad Autnoma del Estado de Morelos in Mxico revealed three additional specimens of B. rudicollis. We compared the limb morphology of these three specimens to the morphology of anguid species of known ecology to determine whether or not B. rudicollis is morphologically adapted for arboreality. Our analysis shows that the limb morphology of B. rudicollis is more similar to the morphology of its terrestrial congeners than to the morphology of arboreal anguids. /// La lagartija nguida mexicana Barisia rudicollis fue descrita por primera vez por Wiegmann en 1828. Desde entonces su ecologa e historia de vida han permanecido casi como un completo misterio. Hasta recientemente La especie fue conocida de slo cinco ejemplares. El conocimiento de su habitat en La naturaleza fue obtenido de datos de La colecta de slo dos ejemplares. Ambos informes registrarn que B. rudicollis fue colectada sobre la superfcie de La tierra. A pesar de La falta de evidencia, La hiptesis de que B. rudicollis es arboreal ha persistido en La literatura. Varios autores han sugerido que B. rudicollis tiene patas, dedos y garras ms largos que los otros miembros del gnero y que esta diferencia en su morfologa indica una manera arboreal de vida. La examinacin de La coleccin del museo de La Universidad Autnoma del Estado de Morelos revel tres ejemplares ms de B. rudicollis. Comparamos La morfologa de los pies y de las patas de estos tres ejemplares con La de especies ngui-das de ecologa conocida para determinar si B. rudicollis est adaptada morfologicamente para ser arboreal. Nuestro anlisis muestra que La morfologa del pie y de La pata de B. rudicollis se acerca ms a La morfologa de sus congneres terrestres que a La de los nguidos arboreales.
30055192|We used univariate and multivariate statistical analyses of 16 meristic and morphometric variables to compare the morphology of three populations of Mexican lampreys, one from Lago de Chapala for the endangered parasitic species Lampetra spadicea, and one each from the Ro Duero and the Ro Grande de Morelia drainages for the non-parasitic Lampetra geminis, a species of special concern. Previous studies had suggested that the two non-parasitic populations might represent separate taxa. For 11 morphometric variables, differences between L. spadicea and the two populations of L. geminis were evident. Lampetra spadicea was much larger overall, had proportionally shorter first dorsal fin height, body depth, and branchial, caudal, and post-orbital lengths, and had a proportionally longer eye length. The relationship between total length and pre-branchial, pre-orbital, and disk lengths also differed between L. spadicea and L. geminis. In principal components analysis (PCA), L. spadicea was clearly separate from L. geminis along the first principal component (related to size differences), but overlapped on the next two (related to shape). Lampetra spadicea also had much lower variation in scores on the second and third principal components than did L. geminis. There were no significant differences between the Ro Duero and Ro Grande de Morelia populations of L. geminis in morphometric variables, and the two populations overlapped completely along the three principal components. For each of five meristic variables, L. spadicea had greater values than the Ro Duero population of L. geminis. In PCA, these two populations showed no overlap on the first principal component, but substantial overlap on the next three components. The Rio Grande de Morelia L. geminis population had intermediate values for all five variables and for scores on the first principal component, but had greater values than the Ro Duero L. geminis population only for numbers of lateral circumoral teeth and cusps. We conclude that L. spadicea is morphologically distinct from L. geminis in several respects, but that the differences we have found between the two populations of L. geminis are too small to warrant separate taxonomie status based on morphology alone. /// Se aplic el anlisis estdistico univariado y multivariado de 16 variables mersticas y morfomtricas para comparar La morfologa de tres poblaciones de lampreas mexicanas, una de La especie parsita en peligro de extincin Lampetra spadicea, del lago de Chapala, y dos de La especie no parsita y en proteccin especial, L. geminis, de las cuencas de los Ros Duero y Grande de Morelia, respectivamente. Estudios previos han sugerido que las dos poblaciones de La forma no parsita puedan representar taxa diferentes. Para las 11 variables morfomtricas, las diferencias fueron evidentes entre L. spadicea y las dos poblaciones de L. geminis. Lampetra spadicea es ms grande, proporcionalmente tiene ms corta la altura de la primera aleta dorsal, la altura del cuerpo y las longitudes branquial, caudal y postorbital, y ms grande la longitud del ojo. La relacin entre la longitud total y las longitudes prebranquial, preorbitai y del disco, tambin difieren entre L. spadicea y L. geminis. En el anlisis de componentes principales (PCA), L. spadicea se separa claramente a lo largo del primer componente (relacionado con diferencias en tamao), pero se solapa en los siguientes dos (aqullos relativos a La forma). Lampetra spadicea tambin tiene menor variacin en los registros del segundo y tercer componentes principales que L. geminis. En las variables morfomtricas no hubo diferencias significativas entre las poblaciones de L. geminis del los Ros Duero y Grande de Morelia, y estas se sobreponen en los tres componentes principales. Para cada una de las cinco variables mersticas, L. spadicea tiene valores mayores que la poblacin de L. geminis del Ro Duero. En el anlisis de componentes principales, estas dos poblaciones no muestran solapamiento en el primer componente, pero el sola-pamiento es substancial en los otros dos. La poblacin de L. geminis del Ro Grande de Morella, tiene valores intermedios para las cinco variables mersticas y para los registros en el primer componente principal, pero tiene valores significativamente mayores que La poblacin del Ro Duero, slo en el numero de dientes laterales y cspides. En conclusin, L. spadicea es morfolgicamente distinta de L. geminis en varios aspectos, pero las diferencias encontradas entre las do poblaciones de L. geminis son muy pequeas para garantizar un estado taxonmico separado, basado nicamente en La morfologa.
30055193|Spotted gar (Lepisosteus oculatus) and alligator gar (L. spatula) roe were fed to green sunfish (Lepomis cyanellus) and channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) at a rate of 2 eggs/g of body weight for 14 days. The dosage, equivalent to the
30055194|Four native fish species exist in the spring-fed, perennial lower 21 km of the Little Colorado River (LCR), Grand Canyon, Arizona, but only speckled dace (Rhinichthys osculus) is present in the entire reach. The other three species, humpback chub (Gila cypha), bluehead sucker (Pantosteus discobolus) and flannelmouth sucker (Catostomus latipinnis), are present only in the lower 14.2 km below Chute Falls. During base flow, unfavorable water chemistry (i.e., high CO) and the physical obstacle of Chute Falls may limit the distributions of the three large-bodied native fishes to below Chute Falls. We sampled benthic algae and invertebrates and analyzed water chemistry downstream (Reach 1) and upstream (Reach 2) of Chute Falls to determine whether the disparity in fish distributions could be attributed to these factors. Algal biomass (chlorophyll a) and density and biomass of invertebrates used as food by fishes were greater in Reach 2 than Reach 1. Free carbon dioxide ( CO ) and alkalinity generally decreased from Reach 2 to Reach 1, whereas dissolved oxygen, pH and specific conductance generally increased. To determine if water chemistry above Chute Falls was unsuiTable to native fishes other than speckled dace, we relocated age-0 (post-larval) and age-1 humpback chub and age-1 blue-head suckers from Reach 1 to three sites in Reach 2 and held them in cages for 3 days. All age-1 fish survived the experiment, although some individuals of both species experienced short-term respiratory stress. Age-0 humpback chub experienced significantly higher mortalities, and exhibited more stress behaviors at the most upstream relocation site than at other sites. We conclude that neither food resources nor water chemistry limit these native fishes to Reach 1. Translocation of fish to the reach above Chute Falls, or breaching that barrier, may be feasible management actions to increase available habitat for the endangered humpback chub and other native fishes in the LCR.
30055195|Spatial genetic variability was assessed, using starch-gel electrophoresis of proteins, for coyotes, Canis latrans, from Arkansas, Kansas, Oklahoma, Tennessee, and Texas (n = 235). Of 31 consistently scorable loci (from a total of 34 examined), 24 were monomorphic and seven were polymorphic. Heterozygosity ranged from 0.7% for Oklahoma to 4.6% for middle Tennessee (X= 3.3%) but was not significantly different among localities. With the exception of Oklahoma, significant deviations from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium occurred at all localities. Wright's F-statistics indicated an overall significant degree of differentiation among populations. Rogers' genetic similarity values, ranging from 0.724 to 0.932, exhibited a pattern of relationships that may reflect an eastward expansion of the coyote's range. Results support the contention that coyotes gradually extended their distribution eastward over a period of 25 to 30 years.
30055196|Baird's pocket gopher (Geomys breviceps) has been presumed to be the only species of pocket gopher in Arkansas, occurring primarily in the southern half and western third of the state. Isolated populations of pocket gophers in Izard Co. in the Ozark Mountains of northern Arkansas were examined using allozyme analysis and identification of chewing lice (Trichodectidae: Mallophaga), which are considered major indicators of cladogenic events. Results confirm that an isolated population of pocket gophers from Izard Co. is closely allied with plains pocket gophers, G. bursarius, and not with G. breviceps. The biogeographical distribution, taxonomic position, and ecological status of this population may reflect effects of isolation from a more widespread ancestral species to the north.
30055197|We used data for mountain sheep (Ovis canadensis) in Arizona to examine the theory that populations with <50 individuals will become extinct. We found no significant difference in extinction rate between populations with <50 individuals (n= 12; four extinctions) and populations with>50 individuals (n = 8; two extinctions). We question three assumptions of the theory: 1) that different races of mountain sheep respond in a similar manner regardless of habitats, 2) the criteria used to define a population, and 3) the accuracy of population estimates.
30055198|Increasing food sources for wildlife can involve planting cultivars to establish food plots. This approach is time consuming and expensive. We initiated a study to determine if disking could be used to increase seed production and invertebrate biomass for wildlife. Plots in brome (Bromus inermis), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and milo (Sorghum bicolor) fields were disked during different months on five sites in eastern Kansas. Seed production on milo fields disked in November was higher than that of other milo plots. Disking in brome or wheat fields did not affect seed production. Disked milo and wheat fields generally produced more invertebrate biomass after two years of disking, but biomasses were not strongly related to month of disking. Undisked brome field plots had a greater biomass of invertebrates than disked plots. Disking may be a useful habitat management technique, but its effects probably are site-specific, and local field trails are recommended to determine the timing for optimal results.
30055199|Measurements of branch, cone, and leaf characteristics were used in multivariate ordinations of 295 trees representing the Ponderosae subsection of genus Pinus native to the mountain islands of the Southwest. Ordinations arranged trees into four recurring groups of phenotypes, three of which were relatively discrete. Results are discussed with reference to the disparate classification systems that originated with Engelmann, Shaw, and Martinez. None of the classification systems satisfactorily accounts for the observed distribution of phenotypes.
30055200|The calcareous green alga Halimeda incrassata was found growing among seagrasses in the lower Laguna Madre of Texas. This represents the first report of Halimeda from a Texas estuary and a substantial range extension for this species. Although other tropical algae have been previously noted in the Laguna Madre, the only other documented occurrences of Halimeda in the western Gulf of Mexico are from the Mexican state of Veracruz. The population contains about 180 individuals per m2 and was persistent throughout the year. Water temperature ranged between 16 and 30C (January 1995 through January 1996), which is consistent with the sub-tropical nature of the area. This species has not been previously detected, probably as a result of the small population size and occurrence in the deeper portions (ca. 1.7 m) of Laguna Madre.
30055201|Relationships between environmental factors and vegetation types in a southern part of the Chihuahuan Desert were explored. Species presence-absence data and cover data from 44 samples were analyzed. Eight categorical and seven continuous environmental variables were recorded at each sampling site. Classification analysis identified four vegetation types: crassicaulous scrub, rosetophyllous scrub, microphyllous scrub, and mesquital. A regression of ordination scores from a principal components analysis on environmental variates indicated that vegetation variation was strongly correlated with geomorphological variables. Discriminant analysis based on environmental variables showed a clear segregation of the four vegetation types. /// Se exploraron las relaciones entre el ambiente fsico y los tipos de vegetacin en La zona sur del Desierto Chihuahuense. Se analizaron datos de presencia-ausencia y cobertura de las especies en 44 muestras, en cada una de las cuales se registraron ocho variables ambientales categricas y siete continuas. Un anlisis de clasificacin revel La presencia de cuatro tipos de vegetacin en el rea de estudio: matorral crasicaule, matorral rosetfilo, matorral micrfilo y mezquital. Una regresin entre los puntajes por sitio obtenidos mediante un anlisis de componentes principales y las variables ambientales sugiri que La variacin de La vegetacin est fuertemente correlacionada con La variacin de caractersticas geomorfolgicas. Un anlisis discriminante aplicado sobre las variables ambientales mostr una clara segregacin de los cuatro tipos de vegetacin.
30055202|We studied changes in the effect of an ant-aphid interaction on reproductive fitness (as end-of-season seed set) of Paullina fuscecens (Sapindaceae). The study was carried out in the sand dune matorral on the coast of the state of Veracruz, Mxico (1936'N, 9622'W; elevation <50 m). We established two permanent 5 by 5 m study plots during three years (1990, 1991, 1993): a control plot, with the ant-aphid association, and an experimental plot, without the association. Plants with ants and aphids produced fewer seeds than plants without ants in 1990 and 1993; in 1991 there was no treatment effect. Differences between years in the control plot were much less pronounced than in the experimental plot. Treatment effects depended on year of sampling. In the control treatment the percent of inflorescences with seeds was lower in 1991 than in 1990 and 1993. In the experimental treatment, the percent of inflorescences was also lower in 1991 than in 1990 or 1993; however, in contrast to results in the control treatment, the percent of inflorescences with seeds was higher in 1990 than in 1993. Even though we did not find significant correlations between rainfall, temperature, and number of seeds produced or the number of inflorescences with no seeds, a tendency was observed: when rainfall and minimum temperature increased, the number of inflorescences with no seeds tended to decrease and the number of seeds per inflorescence tended to increase. In the best year in terms of plant reproductive fitness (1990), highest rainfall was registered the month before inflorescence development. Between-year variation in precipitation and temperature had equal effects on both plots, so within-year variation per plot should be the effect of the ant-aphid association. /// Estudiamos los cambios en el efecto de una interaccin hormiga-fido sobre La adecuacin (medida como produccin de frutos por temporada) de Paullinia fuscecens (Sapindaceae). El estudio se realiz en el matorral de dunas costeras del centro del estado de Veracruz, Mxico (1936'N, 9622'W; altitud <50 m). EsTablecimos dos reas permanentes de muestreo de 5 por 5 m, durante tres aos (1990, 1991, 1993): un lote control, con la presencia de la asociacin hormiga-fido, y un lote experimental, sin La asociacin. Las plantas con hormigas y fidos produjeron menos semillas que las plantas sin hormigas en 1990 y en 1993; en 1991 no se encontr efecto del tratamiento. Las diferencias entre aos en el lote control fueron menos pronunciadas que en el rea experimental. Los efectos del tratamiento dependieron del ao del muestreo. El porcentaje de inflorescencias en el lote experimental fue tambin menor en 1991 que en 1990 y 1993. En contraste, el lote control, el porcentaje de inflorescencias con semillas fue ms alto en 1990 que en 1993. A pesar de no encontrar correlaciones significativas entre La precipitacin, temperatura y el nmero de semillas producidas o el nmero de inflorescencias que no produjeron semillas, se observ una tendencia: cuando aumentan La precipitacin y La temperatura mnima, tiende a disminuir el nmero de inflorescencias que no produjeron semillas y a aumentar el nmero de semillas por inflorescencia. En el mejor ao, en trminos de adecuacin de la planta (1990), La mayor precipitacin mensual se registr en el mes anterior al desarrollo de las inflorescencias. La variacin interanual en precipitacin y temperatura afecta por igual a ambos tratamientos, entonces La variacin intraanual se debe al efecto de La presencia de La interaccin hormiga-fido.
30054054|We present the results of 22 years of snap-trapping sessions in three distinct habitat types (oak woodland, valley grassland, and chamise chaparral) in central California. Small mammal abundance in fall, but not summer, generally was correlated positively among habitats (species pooled) and among species (habitats pooled), although most correlations among pairs of species were weak and some were negative. Similarity in temporal patterns of abundance did not correspond closely to similarity in habitat use or to taxonomic affinity. Small mammal abundance in fall (but not summer) also was correlated positively with annual rainfall, but the strength of the relationship varied considerably among species. Species of small mammals in this habitat mosaic formed a loosely-structured assemblage characterized by population dynamics that were primarily individualistic.
30054055|Rodent communities were monitored in two native cottonwood (Populus deltoides spp. wislizenii) and two exotic saltcedar (Tamarix ramosissima) riparian forest sites in the Middle Rio Grande Valley of central New Mexico. Species richness was greater in saltcedar, due to the addition of some species typically associated with dry upland or grassland conditions, which probably reflects proximity to source habitats. The predominant species in both vegetation types was Peromyscus leucopus, for which abundance estimates, reproductive data, and sex ratios did not differ between vegetation types. June and August abundances of P. leucopus at saltcedar sites were positively correlated with precipitation the previous winter, which suggests that use of saltcedar may vary with short-term weather conditions.
30054056|This paper consolidates all known information on the status of the Ozark big-eared bat (Corynorhinus townsendii ingens) in Oklahoma since 1957 when the species was first found in the state (Glass, 1961). Currently, maternity colonies and hibernacula of C. t. ingens are only known to occur in Adair County, although individuals occasionally have been found in Cherokee and Delaware counties. Estimates of summer populations have been made annually at all known maternity sites since 1983. Summer estimates of big-eared bats ranged from a low of 215 in 1983 to a high of 852 in 1990. The median summer estimate for 1983 through 1986 was 289 (range is 215 to 441). Increased numbers at all maternity caves, as well as discovery of a new maternity cave, brought the median summer estimate for 1987 through 1990 up to 776 (range is 581 to 852); however, numbers declined from 1991 through 1995 with a median of 527 (range is 381 to 654). A hibernaculum was found in 1981 and has been monitored annually since 1986; winter estimates at that cave remained fairly stable from 1986 through 1994 with a median of 242 (range is 182 to 323). Two additional hibernacula exist; one was used by a small number of bats some winters, and the other contained 247 big-eared bats when it was discovered in 1987. However, annual winter estimates could not be made at these sites without considerable disturbance to both bats and caves.
30054057|In pronghorns (Antilocapra americana), variation in group stability has been correlated with population density and season. One implication of group stability is mate choice strategy. When costs of such activity are low, females may move among groups defended by males, sampling those males and actively choosing one as a mate. However, when costs of active choice are high, females may use a passive choice strategy, mating with the male best able to defend the group. I studied a translocated, nonterritorial pronghorn population in central California and examined group stability, activity budgets, and distances moved by females to determine if females changed their behavior and movement patterns around the breeding season, thus implying if they actively or passively chose mates. Females generally spent more time feeding and less time walking during the breeding season. Most females did not alter distances moved during the rut versus other months; however, statistical power was low for some comparisons. Groups were quite stable, and when changes occurred, they were usually caused by a male separating some females to form another group. The patterns observed for this population suggest females were not actively choosing mates, perhaps because males prevented them from leaving groups or because the costs of active choice were too high. A combination of poor forage conditions, poor physical condition in females, and low population density may have constrained females to remain with one group in the same area.
30054058|We determined the diet of feral hogs (Sus scrofa; n = 197) in the semi-arid western zone of the South Texas Plains (STP) from stomachs of animals collected from autumn 1989 to autumn 1991 (n = 9 seasons). Vegetation made up approximately 93% of the annual diet by volume. Relative food composition and frequency of occurrence within the diet varied (P < 0.05) on a year and season basis. Diet overlap with large native herbivores was moderate and competition of hogs with these species may be restricted to times of resource scarcity. Animal matter constituted a small (6.7% annually) and seasonally variable part of the diet. A review of threatened and endangered plants and animals within the STP suggested minimal negative impact by direct consumption by feral hogs, though local and nonconsumptive effects could be substantial.
30054059|An estimated 80% of redheads (Aythya americana) winter on the Laguna Madre of southern Texas and Mexico. Because there have been profound changes in the Laguna Madre over the past three decades and the area is facing increasing industrial and recreational development, we studied the winter distribution and habitat requirements of redheads during two winters (1987-1988 and 1988-1989) on the Lower Laguna Madre, Texas to provide information that could be used to understand, identify, and protect wintering redhead habitat. Redheads began arriving on the Lower Laguna Madre during early October in 1987 and 1988, and continued to arrive through November. Redhead migration was closely associated with passing weather fronts. Redheads arrived on the day a front arrived and during the following two days; no migrants were observed arriving the day before a weather front arrived. Flock size of arriving redheads was 26.4  0.6 birds and did not differ among days or by time of day (morning midday, or afternoon). Number of flocks arriving per 0.5 h interval (arrival rate) was greater during afternoon (21.7  0.6) than during morning (4.3  1.2) or midday (1.5  0.4) on the day of frontal passage and during the first day after frontal passage. Upon arrival, redhead flocks congregated in the central portion of the Lower Laguna Madre. They continued to use the central portion throughout the winter, but gradually spread to the northern and southern ends of the lagoon. Seventy-one percent of the area used by flocks was vegetated with shoalgrass (Halodule wrightii) although shoalgrass covered only 32% of the lagoon. Flock movements seemed to be related to tide level; redheads moved to remain in water 12-30 cm deep. These data can be used by the environmental community to identify and protect this unique and indispensable habitat for wintering redheads.
30054060|I examined feeding flights of breeding cattle egrets (Bubulcus ibis) in the Mexicali Valley, Baja California, Mexico, to determine patterns of arrivals and departures and if flights from the colony were random or were directed towards selected parts of the Valley. Nearly 90% of the cattle egrets departed from or arrived at the heronry in flocks of two to 35 individuals, but groups of two to four individuals were predominant (75%). Numbers of departures in groups of two and three individuals were significantly greater than numbers of arrivals in groups of similar size, while numbers of departures and numbers of arrivals in groups greater than three were similar. The feeding flight patterns were non-random and were significantly oriented towards the northeast side of the valley where there was perhaps more food available because of facilitation by surface irrigation of crops. Feeding flight departures were concordant in direction within consecutive days, which suggests preference for previous feeding patches. Previous experience and local enhancement seem to be two mechanisms by which cattle egrets located good foraging patches. /// Examin vuelos alimenticios de garzas vaqueras (Bubulcus ibis) anidando en el Valle de Mexicali, Baja California, Mexico, para determinar patrones de salidas y Ilegadas, y si los vuelos desde la colonia eran al azar o estaban dirigidos hacia partes selectas del valle. Aproximadamente el 90% de las garzas vaqueras partieron de  Ilegaron a la garcera en bandadas de dos a 35 individuos, pero predominaron (75%) los grupos de dos a cuatro individuos. El nmero de salidas en grupos de dos y tres individuos fue significativamente mayor que el nmero de Ilegadas en grupos de tamao similar, mientras que, el nmero de salidas y el nmero de llegadas en grupos mayores de tres fueron similares. Los patrones de vuelos alimenticios no fueron al azar, sino que, estuvieron orientados significativamente hacia el noreste del valle, en donde tal vez haba ms alimento disponible debido a la irrigacin que se le d al cultivo. Las salidas de vuelos alimenticios concordaron en direcci n durante dias consecutivos, lo cual sugiere preferencia por terrenos de forrajeo previos. Experiencia previa y realce local parecen ser dos mecanismos mediante los cuales las garzas vaqueras localizaron buenos terrenos de forrajeo.
30054061|Knowledge of winter mortality is lacking for many avian populations, but its importance is widely recognized. We estimated winter mortality in a northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) population on the Fort Riley Military Reservation in northeastern Kansas by locating, flushing, and counting individual northern bobwhites in coveys each month from December through March during 1961-1967 and 1968-1980. Number and duration of days of -5C and days with snow cover were obtained for each winter. Of the 403 coveys monitored, 198 had access to food plots (<600 m) and 205 did not (>900 m from food plots). December-to-March mortality of northern bobwhites near food plots ranged from 24% to 46% (
30054062|We obtained estimates of a large concentration of geese in and near Lubbock, Texas, during the winters of 1990-1991 through 1994-1995. The estimates ranged from 5,600 (December 1990) to 97,300 (January 1993). Most geese observed during the study period were Canada geese (Branta canadensis). Observations of neckbanded geese showed association with major breeding grounds across the Canadian Arctic; the majority had been marked in the central Arctic. Canada geese breeding in these areas are of small and intermediate sub-species, usually not found in association with urban/suburban environments such as Lubbock and vicinity. Traditionally, the principal wintering areas for Canada geese in the High Plains of Texas have been in the corngrain sorghum-winter wheat production areas north and northwest of Lubbock. Harsh winter weather and poor habitat conditions in these traditional areas in 1990-1991 caused geese to shift south and take advantage of open water, food, and sanctuary found in and around Lubbock. We suggest that geese are now conditioned to the Lubbock environment and will continue to utilize its habitats regardless of conditions elsewhere.
30054063|The age and growth characteristics of Nelson's trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss nelsoni), endemic to the western slope of the Sierra San Pedro Mrtir, Baja California, Mxico, were studied in the Arroyo San Rafael during January 1987 to August 1989. This trout is characterized by its small size (asymptotic length = 330.1 mm standard length [SL]), slow growth, and short life span (4 years old). The weight-length (W-L) relationship was found to be W = (4.477 x 10) x
30054064|Evening primrose, Oenothera elata, is generally considered a hawkmoth-pollinated plant species that exhibits several characteristics of a moth pollination syndrome. We re-examined its reproductive biology by testing the hypothesis that a twilight-foraging carpenter bee, Xylocopa tabaniformis orpifex, can serve as its pollinator. In our study population, pollen was deposited by carpenter bees on 56% of all the flower stigmas that were monitored during evening periods and at least 70% of those monitored during successive evening and morning periods; flowers that only carpenter bees were allowed to visit produced healthy seed pods about 3 weeks later. Given the effectiveness of X. tabaniformis as a pollinator and its overlap in range with Oenothera elata, we believe a mixed pollination syndrome that includes both bees and moths is a more appropriate characterization of the pollination biology of this plant species.
30055251|We examined the contents of 136 orchard oriole stomachs using a syringe-saline flushing technique. We describe the technique of flushing, and identifying the fragments obtained, as well as possible limitations. The contents of the stomachs were primarily parts of arthropods: Orthoptera, Arachnida, and Coleoptera, but fruit pulp of several species became important later in the summer. Significant differences in the categories of food items were found between adults of both sexes and fledglings.
30055252|The Mexican spotted owl is listed as a threatened species in Mexico, but little is known there about its current status and habitat. Mexican spotted owls were surveyed by vocal imitations along transects on steep slopes, in canyons, and on lowlands and mesas from 20 May to 23 September 1992 and from 24 March to 26 July 1993 in southwestern Chihuahua, Mexico. Transects encompassed 6,180 ha of forested habitat; 2,760 ha were on steep slopes, 2,960 ha were in canyons and 460 ha were on lowlands and mesas. Twenty-five Mexican spotted owls were located among 13 localities. Habitats were characterized at seven roosting sites and one nesting site. Four sites were classified as tree-roosting sites and three as cliff-roosting sites. Owls at tree-roosting sites were recorded on NE- and NW-facing slopes at a mean elevation of 2,352 m, mean slope of 67.0% and mean canopy closure of 68.0%. Dominant species at tree-roosting sites were oaks, Ouercus spp. (48.5%), Arizona pine, Pinus arizonica (18.4%), Mexican white pine, Pinus ayacahuite (15.4%), and Douglas fir, Pseudotsuga menziesii (11.6%), with mean tree density 643 trees/ha and mean tree basal area 28.5 m ha. Owls at cliff-roosting sites were located on N- and NW-facing slopes at a mean elevation of 2,413 m, mean slope of 76.3%, and mean canopy closure of 68.0%. Oaks (44.1%), Douglas fir (17.8%) and Mexican white pine (15.5%) were the dominant species at cliff-roosting sites, with mean tree density 610 trees/ha and mean tree basal area 30.7 m ha. Trees at the nesting site were Mexican white pine (52.6%), aspen, Populus tremuloides (26.3%) and Arizona pine (21.1%). /// El tecolote moteado Mexicano (Strix occidentalis lucida) se encuentra en la lista de especies amenazadas, aunque poco se conoce acerca de su status y hbitat, es una especie que se considera en peligro. Los tecolotes fueron muestreados a lo largo de transectos en reas de pendientes pronunciadas, caones, y valles en el suroeste del estado de Chihuahua, Mexico. Los muestres se Ilevaron a cabo mediante imitaciones de sonidos vocales a partir del 20 de Mayo al 23 de Septiembre de 1992 y del 24 de Marzo al 26 de Julio de 1993. La superficie de hbitat potencial del tecolote, fu de 6,180 ha, de las cuales 2,760 ha fueron en reas de pendientes pronunciadas, 2,960 ha en caones, y 460 ha en reas bajas y mesas (valles). Se encontraron 25 tecolotes en 13 localidades. Se realizaron caracterizaciones de hbitat en siete sitios de descanso y en un sitio de anidacin. Los tecolotes en sitios de descanso (rboles) fueron localizados sobre las direcciones de las pendientes NE y NW a una elevacin promedio de 2,352 m. Los tecolotes fueron encontrados en reas con ms de un estra to de vegetacin, con una pendiente media de 67% y de sombreo del 68%. Las especies vegetales dominantes fueron encinos, Quercus spp. (48.5%), pinos blancos, Pinus arizonica (18.4%), pino huiyocos, Pinus ayacahuite (15.4%), y pinabetes, Pseudotsuga menziesii (11.6%). La densidad media de rboles fu de 643 rboles/ha y una rea basal de 28.5 m ha. En stos sitios, los tecolotes se localizaron en reas con direccin de pendiente N y NW. Los tecolotes descansaron en reas con mais de dos capas de vegetacin, con una pendiente media de 76.3% y de sombreo del 68.0%. Los encinos (44.1%), pinabetes (17.8%), y pinos huiyocos (15.5%) fueron las especies ms dominantes. La densidad de los rboles fue de 610 rboles/ha y una rea basal media de 30.7 m
30055253|Using standardized mist-netting capture data from the Rio Grande Nature Center, Albuquerque, New Mexico from 1985-1994, and Breeding Bird Survey data from New Mexico and United States from 1980-1994, we compared local, regional, and national population trends of landbird species that migrate along the middle Rio Grande in fall. Evaluations of relationships among population trends, migratory distance, breeding habitat use, nest type, and foraging guilds revealed that population trends of Rio Grande migrants were relatively species-specific and that population changes were unequally distributed among habitats and life history groups. The fall banding data suggested that long-distance migrants, riparian forest migrants, canopy insectivores, and open-cup nesting species declined more over the 10-year period than other groups. Similarities between population trends from banding data and trends from Breeding Bird Survey increased as we expanded the geographic coverage of the Breeding Bird Survey data from New Mexico to the entire United States. We hypothesize that riparian habitat along the middle Rio Grande functions as a funnel that constricts habitat use during migration for species whose breeding and wintering populations are spread over broader geographic areas and that local population changes detected during mass migration may thus reflect widespread and large-scale changes.
30055254|Food habits of introduced rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) in the upper Little Missouri River system of Arkansas were studied by analyzing 18 stomach samples taken from Blaylock Creek between March and April, 1991, 41 stomach samples taken from the Little Missouri River proper and 38 stomach pumped samples obtained from Long Creek between March and May, 1993. Forty-two percent of stomachs from Long Creek contained food items. Stonefly (Plecoptera) larvae were the most frequently found food items, occurring in 44% of the stomachs and comprising 28% of all items recovered. Perlodid stoneflies represented 38% of all food items taken and were present in every stomach containing food. Leptophlebiid mayflies were the most abundant prey in stomachs collected from Blaylock Creek, having a relative abundance of 33%. Stomach samples indicated that introduced rainbow trout feed on a variety of invertebrates in the Little Missouri River system. The annual introduction of rainbow trout may increase feeding competition and disrupt spawning by native fish species in their natural habitat.
30055255|The abundance, host preferences, and causes of mortality of the tortricid, Archips argyrospila, and the gelechiid, Anacampsis innocuella, were studied at the Rio Grande Nature Center, Albuquerque, New Mexico, in a riparian forest dominated by native cottonwood, Populus deltoides subsp. wislizenii, and introduced Russian olive, Eleagnus angustifolia. Caterpillars of these species rolled and tied 8.2% of the leaves on eight study trees in 1992. In feeding tests, larvae of both species ate leaves of a wide variety of the plants at the site. However, actual larval distribution favored cottonwood (moderately by Archips, strongly by Anacampsis). Field distribution can largely be explained by oviposition preferences: significantly more egg clusters were laid by Archips females on cottonwood twigs, and significantly more egg groups were laid by Anacampsis females in cottonwood bark crevices, than were laid on other experimental substrates. Causes of mortality include predation, parasitism, and failure to hatch from the egg.
30055256|The freshwater nemertine Prostoma graecense is reported for the first time from the Rocky Mountain region of the United States. We collected P. graecense from a spring seepage-moss habitat near Bogg's Creek, Pueblo County, Colorado. The community of the habitat containing P. graecense included larvae of four species of flies (Diptera), one aquatic oligochaete, one nematode, and one rotifer. Prostoma graecense appeared to rely on insect larvae as a primary food source. Feeding behavior and habitat characteristics of P. graecense are described.
30055257|We livetrapped Virginia opossums (Didelphis virginiana) on the Welder Wildlife Refuge, Texas, to describe population dynamics of opossums in a subtropical climate. We captured and marked 91 opossums during 3,373 trapnights during 1990-1993. Population densities ranged from 1.08 to 6.82 opossums/km. Densities did not decline following winter, but densities were lower during a drought than post-drought. Only 4% of opossums were recaptured  12 months after their original capture, and the longest time between first and last captures was 16 months. Drought had no apparent effect on mean weight and distance between captures. The breeding season occurred from early January through September, when we concluded our trapping effort.
30055258|Habitat was evaluated surrounding occupied, sporadically occupied, and unoccupied caves within the range of the endangered Ozark big-eared bat (Corynorhinus townsendii ingens) in eastern Oklahoma. Vegetative structure of the habitat immediately surrounding caves was assessed in 0.04-ha circular plots. Types of habitats and land use within 3 km of caves were determined by interpretation of color infrared aerial photography and analysis of digitized cover types in a geographic information system (GIS). Few differences were documented for vegetative parameters that were measured. Habitat and land-use types surrounding occupied (maternity and hibernacula) and unoccupied caves did not differ. Based on these and previous findings, the surface habitat surrounding caves does not appear to be significant in cave selection by this subspecies in eastern Oklahoma.
30055259|The pollination biology of Hesperaloe parviflora (Agavaceae) was studied in a natural population at Dolan Falls in south-central Texas. The red tubular flowers varied greatly in tube length and width, mouth width, and in relative positions of stigma and anthers. Flowers opened around dawn, and closed around noon; individual flowers lasted for 1 day, while the flowering period for plants was estimated to last 15 to 25 days. Compatibility experiments showed complete self-incompatibility. Black-chinned hummingbirds (Archilochus alexandri) were exclusive visitors to the flowers, and pollen deposition on stigmas was confirmed. Visits occurred either as part of male territorial trapline flights, or in conjunction with female birds feeding on nearby Fouquieria splendens flowers. Analysis of pollination biology within H. parviflora and other members of Hesperaloe, which is closely related to Yucca, may provide information to further understanding of the evolution of the obligate pollination mutualism between yuccas and yucca moths.
30055260|Changes in Baccharis pteronioides and Haplopappus tenuisectus densities in a southeastern Arizona grassland were related to patterns of livestock grazing, fire, and precipitation. Results suggested that both species increased following two periods of relatively wet winters, and declined during an intervening dry period. Baccharis completely recovered through vegetative regrowth in one year after a 1987 wildfire, but Haplopappus suffered nearly total fire-caused mortality, and had not recovered by 1995 compared to its abundance on a nearby unburned site. In 1995, both species were most abundant in areas protected from grazing. Long-term (1982-1995) densities of Baccharis were stable, but Haplopappus density increased by more than two orders of magnitude over the same period, except in the burned area.
30055261|Freshly matured, aerial, chasmogamous florets (caryopses or seeds enclosed within the lemma and palea) of Nassella leucotricha (formerly Stipa leucotricha) are dormant. Removal of the lemma and palea did not increase germination; thus, the seeds exhibit primary dormancy. High temperatures are required to break dormancy. Removal of the lemma and palea after 174 days of dry storage at 4C in low light did not increase germination. Removal of the lemma and palea after dry storage at 35/23C (12/12 h) for 109 days increased germination to 96%; however, removal of the lemma and palea after dry storage at 25C required 174 days to increase germination to the same level. If the floret is intact and the fruit stored dry at 25C for as long as 9 years, germination is approximately 20%, but with removal of the lemma and palea, germination increased to 83%. There appear to be two factors responsible for the dormancy in seeds of N. leucotricha. Exposure to temperatures of 25 to 35C or possibly higher for 3 to 6 months after the seeds are mature is required to break dormancy and promote germination. In addition, the lemma and palea of the floret seem to be impermeable or inhibitory, also preventing germination. Nassella leucotricha will not germinate the first summer or early fall after dispersal because the time-temperature requirement to break dormancy has not been satisfied. Nassella leucotricha will only germinate in the first fall or winter after dispersal if the time-temperature requirement for breaking dormancy is met and the floret is scarified, breaking the permeability or inhibition barrier imposed by the lemma and palea. Thus, florets of N. leucotricha can potentially remain dormant and viable in the seed bank for a considerable time and could be moved a considerable distance from the site of maturation prior to germination.
30055262|The presence of host-specific types of Phoradendron californicum (desert mistletoe) in Northern Baja California was experimentally tested and flowering times of the different proposed types were observed. Fruits were collected separately from Phoradendron growing on the host species Prosopis articulata, Cercidium microphyllum, and Acacia greggii and cross-dispersed to individuals of these host species. On Prosopis individuals, seeds from Phoradendron on Prosopis established significantly better than seeds from Phoradendron on Cercidium or Acacia. No seeds established on Cercidium, but seeds from Phoradendron on Cercidium and Acacia established equally well on Acacia, both having significantly better establishment than seeds from Phoradendron on Prosopis. These results indicate the existence of two host-specific types of Phoradendron, one of which primarily infects Acacia and Cercidium, and the other infecting Prosopis. Flowering phenology of Phoradendron on different host species was measured at four, widely separated sites. At all sites, Phoradendron on Prosopis flowered significantly later than Phoradendron on other host species, indicating partial reproductive isolation between the two host-specific types of Phoradendron. /// La presencia de un tipo de hospedero-especifico de Phoradendron californicum (murdago del desierto) fue experimentalmente probado, y el tiempo de floracin de diferentes tipos propuestos fueron observados en Baja California Norte. Los frutos fueron colectados en forma separada de Phoradendron creciendo sobre las especies hospederas Prosopis articulata, Cercidium microphyllum, and Acacia greggii y fueron dispersados sobre los individuos de las diferentes especies hospederas. En los individuos de Prosopis, las semillas de Phoradendron sobre Prosopis se establecieron significativamente mejor que las semillas de Phoradendron sobre Cercidium or Acacia. Ninguna semilla se estableci6 en Cercidium, pero si se establecieron las semillas de Phoradendron sobre Cercidium and Acacia de la misma forma que en Acacia, teniendo en ambas especies un establecimiento significativamente mejor que las semillas de Phoradendron sobre Prosopis. Estos resultados indican la existencia de dos tipos de hospederos-especificos de Phoradendron, uno de los cuales infecta principalmente Acacia and Cercidium, y otro infectando a Prosopis. La fenologa de floracin de Phoradendron sobre diferentes especies hospederas fue medida en cuatro sitios separados ampliamente. En todos los sitios, Phoradendron sobre Prosopis floreci significativamente mas tarde que Phoradendron sobre otra especie hospedera, indicando un aislamiento reproductivo parcial entre los dos tipos de hospederos-especificos de Phoradendron.
30055263|The chorusing phenology of the crawfish frog, Rana areolata, was monitored at a site in east-central Kansas from 1989 to 1993. Calling was initiated at temporary pools each spring following rainfall events with temperatures of ca. 13.0C. Each year, peak chorusing spanned only 3 to 4 nights while some calling occurred periodically during a 22 to 55-d period in March to early May. Aural surveys of calling males conducted during peak chorusing periods in a 9-county area revealed that R. areolata remains locally common in areas of suitable habitat. The largest populations, as judged by calling activity, occurred in areas with large tracts of native tallgrass prairie, gentle terrain, and deep, clay soils. Few calling males were heard in areas with shallow soils or intensive agricultural development.
30055264|The threatened Coachella Valley fringe-toed lizard (Uma inornata) is protected within a series of sand dune remnants. Understanding the specific habitat needs of these lizards is important to the management of this ecosystem. I examined habitat selection of U. inornata at both multiple isolated dunes and, more intensively, at a single dune site. For the multiple sites analysis, I found that habitat area and sand compaction were the most important features distinguishing between occupied and unoccupied dunes. At the single dune, I found sand compaction and the presence of plants such as Dicoria canescens, Atriplex canescens, and Salsola tragus to be associated with areas of high lizard use. The relative contribution of each of these variables differed with year, season, and age class of the lizards. In each year, including my multiple sites analysis, sand compaction was consistently the most important habitat characteristic I measured. Uma inornata were associated with locations on the dunes with deep, loose sand.
30055275|Black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) influence ecosystem structure and function through their burrowing and grazing activities, and reportedly increase plant species diversity relative to uncolonized portions of the landscape. Consequently, systematic eradication of prairie dogs-a widespread practice over much of the Great Plains-may ultimately reduce plant species diversity. To determine the effects of prairie dogs and associated fauna on herbaceous vegetation in a southern mixed-grass prairie ecosystem, we quantified herbaceous standing crop, species composition, and plant species diversity on and off a prairie dog colony in north-central Texas in 1988 and 1989. Total live herbaceous standing crop was 3 times to 4 times greater off the prairie dog colony than on the prairie dog colony in 1988 and 1989, respectively. Midgrass biomass was 6 and 15 times greater off-colony than on-colony in 1988 and 1989, respectively. Shortgrass biomass did not differ between on-colony and off-colony zones in either year. Principal components analysis (PCA) revealed plant species distribution patterns attributable to colonization by prairie dogs. Axis I sample scores were strongly correlated with midgrass biomass but not shortgrass biomass. Statistical analyses of jack-knifed Shannon's and Simpson's diversity indices indicated that plant species diversity was greater off than on the prairie dog colony. Thus, blacktailed prairie dogs and associated fauna substantially altered the relative distribution, abundance, and composition of herbaceous vegetation at this southern mixed-grass prairie site.
30055276|Anostraca (fairy shrimps) have never been reported in Arkansas. In this paper we report the occurrence of seven species. Most of the information has been gathered through sampling with aquatic dipnets, but literature records were also searched. Selected physicochemical data for seven collections were collected using standard limnological methods. Two collections of Streptocephalus sealii fill a gap in its known distribution. Two collections of Eubranchipus serratus lie along the southern edge of its known range. Several collections of Eubranchipus neglectus extend its range to the SW. The Streptocephalus texanus location extends its known distribution in the United States slightly to the SE. The Arkansas collections of Eubranchipus moorei extend its known range approximately 600 km to the N. The Arkansas localities for Branchinecta packardi and Thamnocephalus platyurus are the first ones reported E of the Great Plains, where both are common.
30055277|Spatial variation in the structure of fish assemblages at eight sites in the Devils River was examined seasonally over one year. Data were analyzed to explore natural variation at the mesohabitat scale. The local fish fauna was dominated by four minnows (Cyprinidae) and one mosquitofish (Poeciliidae). Overall assemblage composition in this study was similar to that reported previously, but three species were not reported before, and nine species previously reported were not observed during our study. Four threatened species ranked among the most abundant fishes encountered during our surveys. Species diversity (H') and fish abundances showed relatively large variation between mesohabitats as well as between seasons within most mesohabitats. The most species-rich mesohabitats were pools, channels, channel edges, and riffles, whereas the least species occurred in shallow, isolated pools dominated by Cyprinodon eximius. Spatiotemporal patterns of taxonomic composition were examined using principal components analysis. Seasonal shifts in assemblage structure were associated primarily with an axis that contrasted domination by Moxostoma congestum, Etheostoma grahami, Cyprinodon eximius, and Dionda diaboli versus domination by Micropterus dolomieu, Cyprinella proserpina, Cyprinella venusta, and Cichlasoma cyanoguttatum. Canonical correlation analysis was performed using assemblage data in combination with a set of environmental parameters. The first pair of canonical axes described a pattern in which fishes occupied a wide range of sites during summer, and in which during winter, most species were associated with shallow, channel mesohabitats with high dissolved oxygen. The Devils River is dominated by small fishes that have extended spawning periods and that scatter their eggs over open substrates.
30055278|Fish populations in the central Platte River, Nebraska, were sampled from 19871995 as part of a larger study. The fish community is dominated by cyprinid taxa, with centrarchids, catostomids, and ictalurids also common. Comparisons between the species composition from the present study and three other studies conducted over the last 55+ years indicates that fish species composition in the central Platte River has not changed appreciably over time. A diverse fish assemblage composed of 58 species has been found over four studies, with large overlaps in species found between studies. There is considerable similarity between the fish assemblage collected in the central Platte River in 1939-1941 and that collected during 1987-1995, using the Coefficient of Community index. Similarities between these two studies that are over 50 years apart were 70% for presence/absence of all fish species, and 89% for cyprinid species. A comparison of the present study to a recent study on the lower Platte River indicates that the species composition in the central Platte River is similar in many respects to that of the lower Platte River, although the fish community in the central Platte River may be somewhat more diverse. These data indicate a high degree of resilience in the fish populations of the central Platte River over time, despite a variety of disturbances.
30055279|An apparently isolated population of Sceloporus scalaris in central Durango and adjacent parts of Aguascalientes, Jalisco and Zacatecas, Mexico, is described as a new subspecies, S. s. brownorum, differing from S. s. scalaris and S. s. unicanthalis in several ways, including the combination of two canthals on each side, widely separated abdominal semeions in adult males, and poorly developed or no gular markings. It differs from other members of the scalaris complex in having two canthals, no red in the abdominal semeions of adult males, and (except for S. samcolemani) in the presence of dark crossbars interrupting the abdominal semeions in adult males. Presently interactive as well as relictual intergrades are described between S. s. scalaris and S. s. unicanthalis, but none are known between S. s. brownorum and the other two subspecies of S. scalaris. RESUMEN-Una poblacin aparentemente aislada de Sceloporus scalaris en el centro de Durango y partes adyacentes de Aguascalientes, Jalisco y Zacatecas, Mexico, es descrita como una nueva subespecie, S. s. brownorum, difiriendo de S. s. scalaris y S. s. unicanthalis en diferentes aspectos, incluyendo la combinacin de dos cantales en cada lado, "semeions" abdominales ampliamente separados en machos adultos, y marcas gulares pobremente desarrolladas o ausentes. Esta subespecie difiere de otros miembros del complejo scalaris en tener dos cantales, sin coloraci6n roja en los "semeions" abdominales de los machos adultos, y (excluyendo S. samcolemani) en la presencia de lineas transversales oscuras interrumpiendo los "semeions" abdominales en machos adultos. Los intergrados, actualmente interactivos y tambien los relictos, son descritos entre S. s. scalaris y S. s. unicanthalis, pero no se conocen ningunos entre S. s. brownorum y las otras dos subespecies de S. scalaris.
30055280|We reviewed Sonoran Desert occurrences of Procellariiformes (albatrosses, petrels, shearwaters, and storm-petrels) through August 1996. Most occurrences (27 of 35, 77.1%) were at the Salton Sea, California. Records show a non-random seasonal distribution between late April and late September of species that occur regularly off Mexico during summer. Procellariiform records correspond with annual southerly monsoon flows through the Gulf of California, and with concomitant increases in sea surface temperatures of adjacent waters off southwestern Mexico such that a more uniform habitat is established with the Gulf of California. RESUMEN-Revisamos la ocurrencia de Procellariiformes (lbatroses, petrels, pardelas y paifios) en el desierto de Sonora hasta agosto de 1996. La mayoria de ocurrencias (27 del 35, 77.1%) tuvieron lugar en Salton Sea, California. Los registros muestran una distribuci6n estacional no al azar entre fines de abril y fines de septiembre de las especies que regularmente se encuentran en Mxico durante el verano. Los registros de Procellariiformes corresponden con el monzn anual que fluye del sur a travs del Golfo de California y con los incrementos concomitantes de las temperaturas de la superficie del mar de aguas adyacentes al suroeste de Mxico ya que se ha establecido un habitat mils uniforme con el Golfo de California.
30055281|There are only four well-documented records of the American mastodont (Mammut americanum) from New Mexico. The two previously published occurrences are both from the Sandia Mountains in north-central New Mexico at elevations above 2,000 m; Sandia Cave in Sandoval County and Tree Spring in Bernalillo County. Two new records are from gravel pits in the Rio Grande Valley in the central part of the state; one from near Los Lunas in Valencia County and a second near Lemitar in Socorro County. These few occurrences indicate that M. americanum was a rare forest inhabitant of New Mexico during the Pleistocene.
30055282|Meadow jumping mice (Zapus hudsonius luteus) were live trapped on Bosque del Apache National Wildlife Refuge in the middle Rio Grande Valley of New Mexico from June to October 1991 and from March to August 1992. During 26,591 trap nights, we captured 82 different individuals. The earliest capture in the spring was on 13 March; the latest fall capture was on 24 October. No meadow jumping mice were captured in August during either year. Males were captured for two weeks before the first female was captured. Breeding occurred in May, June, and July. Meadow jumping mice were caught in all habitats trapped: 42 along canal and drain banks, 30 in wetland impoundments, nine in a woodlands and one in croplands. Highest capture/effort was along canals and drains during summer, in woodlands during fall, and in wetland impoundments during spring. Meadow jumping mice were consistently trapped in areas with a high percentage of understory and midstory vegetation, and high soil moisture, but distance to permanent water was highly variable.
30055283|Pocket gophers (family Geomyidae) are fossorial rodents that excavate extensive underground tunnel systems in which they spend the majority of their lives. We excavated 14 burrow systems of three species during three field seasons (1993-1995) and measured specific variables that characterize each burrow system. Burrows of Cratogeomys gymnurus and C. tylorhinus were similar to one another and differed significantly in depth and diameter from those of Pappogeomys bulleri. In addition, a spiraling tunnel was excavated in a burrow system of C. tylorhinus. /// Las tuzas (familia Geomyidae) son roedores fosoriales que excavan extensos sistemas de tfineles subterraineos donde pasan la mayor parte de sus vidas. Excavamos 14 sistemas de tufneles correspondientes a tres especies durante tres temporadas de campafia (1993-1995) y medimos variables especificas tales que caracterizan a cada sistema de tfineles. Las cuevas de Cratogeomys gymnurus y de C. tylorhinus fueron similares y se distinguieron significativamente en profundidad y dismetro de aquellas de Pappogeomys bulleri. Ademais, un tiinel en espiral fue excavado en un sistema de C. tylorhinus.
30055301|One of the most dramatic recent changes in ecosystems is the human-induced loss of diversity. Little enough is known about the biology and ecology of dominant species, but when it comes to most rare species, information is limited and only anecdotal in many cases. Biotic communities are usually structured with one or a few high-density or common species with the majority of species having low or very low densities. These low-density species are also species that are relatively rare. A common species in a community has a high density because conditions for growth and reproduction of that species are optimal in that physical location. Away from the area where a species is common, the density will decline as environmental conditions, both biotic and abiotic, change and the species occurs in areas that are less than optimal for its growth and reproduction. Thus, density will change with distance along a gradient and a common species will become rare, or the reverse may happen. This spatial gradient may be caused by one or usually a series of biotic and abiotic factors that interact in a complex way. However, rareness must be examined in an additional context. Rather than just examining distance, we must determine if a species' distribution is narrow or wide. A species may be considered rare if its density is high but it has a narrow or limited distribution. A species is also considered rare with a wide distribution but low abundance. A species with a low density and narrow distribution is also rare. Adding time to the above consideration further compounds the issue. Many species have increased and/or decreased one or many times in the past as environmental conditions changed. With only one temporal view of a species, its future density and distribution can not be predicted.
30055302|There is a great need for developing new approaches to monitoring and recovering rare plants. We have only begun to adopt or invent the perspectives, tools, and institutions to provide better data for making management decisions regarding populations in the wild. Monitoring approaches and tools are best applied when they provide clear answers to specific, management-oriented questions. Recovery of rare plants through reintroduction or enhancement of populations is an experiment, supported by ex situ conservation techniques and informed by the results of modeling the dynamics of surrogate populations. There is a larger role for botanical gardens and arboreta to play in conservation. That larger role must extend into the realm of offsite projects, resource management, and other applied aspects of plant conservation. By combining ex situ and in situ approaches, botanic gardens will thus develop expertise in managing wildlands as potential habitat for rare and endangered species. However, creating and managing plant populations in the wild is but one facet of restoration ecology, a fledgling science in need of an institutional home that promotes a full exchange between theory and practice.
30055303|The autecology (species biology) of each of three federal-endangered, narrowlyendemic plant species (Echinacea tennesseensis, Iliamna corei, Solidago shortii) was compared with that of a geographically-widespread congener (E. angustifolia, L rivularis, S. altissima) via research and/or literature reviews. The Echinacea and Iliamna species are very close relatives, and the Solidago species are in the same subsection of the genus. Particular attention was given to the Echinacea species. No differences were found in ecological, morphological, physiological, cytological, genetic, or life history characteristics per se of E. tennesseensis and E. angustifolia that reasonably could account for differences in their geographical distribution. Thus, a scenario based on historical factors was used in conjunction with the autecology of E. tennesseensis to explain development and maintenance of endemism in this species. Likewise, no difference in species biology was identified in the two fire-dependent, fire-adapted Iliamna species, and thus endemism in I. corei also probably is related to both autecological and historical factors. In contrast to the species pairs in Echinacea and Iliamna, the widespread Solidago altissima has a greater potential to form a persistent seed bank and is a better competitor than the narrow endemic S. shortii. However, these autecological differences per se should be used with caution in any attempt to explain maintenance of narrow endemism in S. shortii. We conclude that both autecological and historical factors are needed to explain endemism in many plant species.
30055304|The Trans-Pecos region of western Texas and the Edwards Plateau of central Texas contain the highest density of rare plants and animals in the state. The Desert Scrub sub-region of the Trans-Pecos is most important for rare plants, whereas the Edwards Plateau has the highest density of rare animals. Other regions with a high density of rare species include the Blackland Prairie of east central Texas, the southeastern Gulf Coastal Prairies and Woods, and the South Texas Brush Country. The High Plains of northern Texas and sub-regions within and adjacent to the Grand Prairie of north central Texas (the Grand Prairie, the Eastern and Western Cross Timbers, and the Lampasas Cut Plain) have low densities of rare plants and animals. The eastern and southern portion of the Edwards Plateau is known as the Texas Hill Country, and this area appears most deserving of conservation attention from a regional perspective, since it contains few public lands and is important for both plants and animals. Ashe juniper (Juniperus ashei) dominated forest and woodland cover types of the Hill Country region have more rare plant and animal occurrence records than associated grasslands or more open woodlands. The importance of this evergreen and mixed evergreen/deciduous habitat type to the conservation of rare species is especially significant considering that much of the published scientific literature on J. ashei has been focused on its removal as an undesirable woody plant.
30055305|Abronia macrocarpa, large-fruited sand verbena, is an endangered Texas endemic. A previous study showed that flowers of A. macrocarpa experimentally self-pollinated do not produce seed; only cross-pollination leads to successful seed set. This study examined the selfing barrier. Flowers were experimentally self- and outcrossed, then pollen germination and relative growth of pollen tubes were examined using fluorescent microscopy. Self- and cross-pollen readily adhered to the stigma and germinated forming pollen tubes. Initial rates of pollen tube growth were similar for self- and cross-pollen. However, growth of self-pollen tubes was arrested and the tubes did not penetrate the stigma. Failure to set seed following self-pollination is the result of a pre-fertilization barrier. The inability of self-pollen tubes to penetrate the stigma, presence of trinucleate pollen, and a dry stigma provide evidence suggesting that the self-incompatibility system is likely to be sporophytic.
30055306|Helianthus paradoxus (puzzle sunflower) is a rare species of annual sunflower (Compositae) that grows in inland saline marshes in four locations world-wide. One location is the Diamond-Y Springs Preserve, north of Fort Stockton, Texas (3110'N, 10245'W) and three locations are in central and southeastern New Mexico. The importance of neighbors (competitors) and the impact of grazing on H. paradoxus are unknown. In this experiment, the effects of neighbor removal (clipping and herbiciding) on Helianthus paradoxus were evaluated within salt marsh plots that were grazed or ungrazed by large ungulates. Analysis of variance indicated significant effects of neighbors. The presence of grazers did not have a significant effect on plant stem length, but did cause a 32% reduction. The number of flowers (heads) was reduced 22 to 54% and basal diameter was reduced 3 to 21% when grazers were present, but the magnitude was dependent on the neighbors. Overall, with neighbors present, the mean number of flowers was reduced 57% and basal diameter was reduced 39% compared to removal. The presence of grazers caused a reduction in flower, leaf and stem dry mass by 49%, 39% and 25% respectively. Flower, leaf and stem dry mass were all significantly affected by the presence of neighbors and increased 2.38, 2.61 and 2.75 times respectively with neighbor removal. Thus, grazing by large ungulates will reduce various indicators of Helianthus paradoxus growth and reproduction, but the presence of neighbors caused the greatest reduction.
30055307|About 10,000 YBP the greater Holocene population of drought-sensitive wild rice, Zizania, may have expanded northward and eastward with the retreating glacier and moderating climate, leaving behind isolated populations at the lower latitudes. Warmer and more arid climates may have gradually extirpated the more southwestern populations that were isolated in spring systems that eventually dried up. The phylogeny of the three North American wild rices, as established via isozyme and DNA sequence analysis, supports such a scenario. Texas wild rice, Zizania texana, now grows only in its refugium in the swift current of the upper 4 km of the San Marcos River where vegetative growth prevails and the plants escape large foraging herbivores and competition with exotic plant species. Spared from the ravages of drought because the springs have apparently never gone dry, Zizania texana is now endemic and endangered.
30055308|The population of Texas wildrice (Zizania texana), an endangered macrophyte endemic to the San Marcos River, Texas, declined between 1940 and 1967. The decline has been attributed to reproductive failure among other factors. Panicles in the wild can be pushed under water for periods of time by floating bits of vegetation, swimming waterfowl and recreational users of the river. In this study, the potential role of wetting developing panicles in reproductive failure was investigated. Wetting was achieved by misting panicles for 30 seconds 3 times/day, or by submerging panicles for 3 or 6 hours each day during floral and seed development. Control panicles were left undisturbed. In addition, seeds collected from treated panicles were categorized as having firm, soft, or liquid endosperm. Control panicles developed significantly faster (9.4 days) than panicles submerged for 6 hours (14.8 days). Seed set was significantly lower when panicles were submerged for 3 and 6 hours. There was a significant interaction between treatments and seed endosperm category. The greater the wetting time the greater the proportion of seeds with liquid endosperm and thus inviable seeds. In addition, seeds with soft and liquid endosperm were smaller and contained more moisture than seeds with firm endosperm indicating seeds had not gone through a critical period of dry matter accumulation and that there was a difference in maturity level among seed categories.
30055309|Ancistrocactus tobuschii (Tobusch fishhook cactus), an endangered species, has an endemic distribution on the Edwards Plateau of central Texas. It is only found in the Juniperus Ashei-Quercus fusiformis association on limestone dominated soils. The objective of our study was to characterize plant composition and physical features of the terrain in the immediate area of A. tobuschii at the Walter Buck Wildlife Management Area, Kimble County, Texas (99047'N, 30'28'W). We visually estimated the percent cover or calculated the percent frequency of grasses, pteridophytes, woody plants, forbs, coarse rock fragments, bedrock, and bare ground in the immediate area of 291 A. tobuschii plants with a 1.0 m2 quadrat in October 1996. Forty-one plants associated with the cactus had a composite mean ground cover of 33%. The median number of plant species per quadrat was five. Bouteloua curtipendula, Hilaria belangeri, Bouteloua hirsuta, and Panicum hallii were the dominant plant species in the habitat. The percent cover of the surface in the immediate area of cacti was 19% bedrock, 44% coarse rock fragments and 4% bare ground. The habitat of A. tobuschii on the Edwards Plateau of central Texas can be characterized as low stony hill range sites with large amounts of bedrock, coarse rock fragments, limited bare ground, and sparse, patchy vegetation.
30055310|Thirty-three Lincoln's sparrow (Melospiza lincolnii) territories were studied in Fourmile Park (2,600 m elev.), Garfield County, Colorado. This population was characterized by a low population density, a low, constant territorial defense rate, and a large number of concurrently overlapping territories. Territories on the periphery of the population were the largest, and territory size was unrelated to vegetation composition. Territory size did not affect the budgeting of breeding behaviors.
30055311|Chronology and intensity of molt in northern shovelers (Anas clypeata) collected from freshwater and saltwater habitats, and waste-water processing ponds, were studied from October through May, 1982-1984, in south Texas. Overall, molt intensity was greater in 1983-1984 than in 1982-1983, probably due to higher rainfall and lower temperatures during 1983-1984. Molt intensity was negatively correlated with body condition for only juvenile males, and no relationship between molt intensity and habitat type was detected. Molt intensity was low upon arrival on the wintering grounds during October through December for all age-sex classes of shovelers. Molt intensity increased in adult males in January, a month earlier than in juvenile males. Molt intensity increased dramatically and was greater in juvenile males than in all other age-sex classes during February. The prealternate molt of adult and juvenile males peaked in February compared to March for adult and juvenile females. Prealternate molt of wintering shovelers in Texas occurs one to two months later than in most other North American Anas spp. studied.
30055312|The Mexican kit fox (Vulpes macrotis zinseri) is an endangered subspecies that is restricted to the arid plains of the Sierra Madre Mountains of Mexico. Previous genetic analysis of other arid-land fox populations in the U.S. showed that the species is divided into two phylogenetically distinct taxa; the kit fox occupies the western, and the swift fox, the eastern plains bordering the Rocky Mountains. We analyzed 740 base pairs (bp) of cytochrome b sequence and 350 bp of control region sequence to determine if Mexican kit foxes are genetically distinct and to assess their relationship to kit and swift foxes of the U.S. We found two genotypes in 19 foxes from Nuevo Le6n and Coahuila, Mexico that differed by a single base pair substitution. These genotypes were phylogenetically grouped with those sequences from kit foxes in Arizona, Utah, and New Mexico but differed from them by 1 to 4 substitutions (0.3 to 1.3%) in control region sequence. Our results suggest that the Mexican kit foxes are closely associated with populations of the kit fox to the west of the Rocky Mountains and, although they have unique genotypes, Mexican kit foxes have only recently been isolated from their conspecifics in the U.S. /// La zorra nortea (Vulpes macrotis zinseri) es una subespecie en peligro de extincin que se encuentra restringida a las praderas ridas de la Sierra Madre en Mxico. Anlisis genticos previos de zorros del complejo velox-macrotis de los Estados Unidos demostraron que se trata de dos grupos filogenticamente distintos, Vulpes macrotis que ocupa las praderas del oeste y Vulpes velox que ocupa las praderas colindando el este de las Montaas Rocallosas. Para determinar si la zorra nortea es genticamente distinta y para evaluar las relaciones filogenticas que estos zorros tienen con los de las especies V macrotis y V velox de los Estados Unidos, analizamos las secuencias de dos regiones del ADN mitocondrial: 740 pares de bases del citocromo b y 350 pares de bases de la regin control. En los 19 zorros muestreados de Nuevo Len y Coahuila encontramos dos genotipos que se diferencian por una sola substitucin. Estos genotipos estn filogfticamente asociados con las secuencias de V macrotis de Arizona, Utah, y Nuevo Mxico, pero se diferencian de ellas por 1 a 4 substituciones (0.3 a 1.3%), todas en la secuencia de la regin control. Nuestros resultados sugieren que las zorras norteas estfn ntimamente relacionadas con los V macrotis del oeste de las Montaas Rocallosas y aunque tienen genotipos nicos, el aislamiento de sus parientes cercanos de los Estados Unidos se produjo recientemente.
30055313|The addition to the known modern terrestrial gastropod fauna of the Franklin Mountains of Gastrocopta pilsbryana and Cionella lubrica brings the total to 17 native taxa. In Texas, Cionella lubrica has been known previously only from fossils and living populations in the Guadalupe, Davis, and Chisos Mts. Quaternary sediments have yielded 27 gastropod taxa, of which six are reported for the first time. The paleoenvironmental implications of the fossil assemblages are discussed. Five exotic gastropod species established on the lower slopes of the Franklin Mountains, primarily about human habitations, are reported for the first time.
30055314|Recovery of degraded semiarid rangeland is influenced by the degree of soil erosion and changes in soil physical and chemical properties that follow the loss of herbaceous cover. The objectives of this study were to compare changes in physical and chemical properties of a chaparral soil protected from grazing for 18 years, and to evaluate these changes relative to succession and threshold paradigms. Litter and soil samples were collected beneath shrub live oak (Ouercus turbinella), birchleaf mountain mahogany (Cercocarpus betuloides) and open spaces between shrubs in a livestock exclosure and the surrounding grazed area. Additional soil was collected beneath shrub live oak and from open spaces between shrubs for a bioassay of soil fertility within the exclosure and the grazed area using oats (Avena sativa) as the indicator species. Percentage silt and clay were greater and percentage sand was lower within the exclosure. Organic carbon and total nitrogen concentrations were greater in soil beneath mountain mahogany and from shrubless openings within the exclosure compared to the grazed area, but not beneath shrub live oak. Soil from shrubless openings in the exclosure produced greater oat shoot weights compared to soil from open spaces in the grazed area, but there was no difference in oat shoot weights between grazed and protected areas beneath shrub live oak. Shoot weights increased in response to nitrogen and nitrogen + phosphorus, but not phosphorus alone, indicating the site was primarily nitrogen limited. Improvements in soil physical and chemical properties within the exclosure did not result in recovery of herbaceous vegetation in open areas between shrubs. A very heterogeneous distribution pattern in soil properties, characterized by large differences between soils under shrubs compared to open areas between shrubs, was evident within the exclosure and in the grazed area, indicating the presence of a degraded ecosystem. Improvements in soil physical and chemical properties within the exclosure represent an upward trend within a stable threshold of lower productivity, rather than a slow return to climax condition.
30055325|For territorial animals, advertisement and aggressive defense may lead to expulsion of intruders. We conducted two laboratory experiments to determine whether the aggressive and chemosensory behavior of a small woodland salamander, Plethodon serratus, is consistent with the hypothesis of territoriality. In the first experiment, overt attacks were made only by residents, and intruders appeared to avoid confrontations with residents. Because individuals were tested as both residents and intruders, the results indicate that residency has an inherent advantage that is independent of factors such as body size or experience. In the second experiment, individuals performed more chemosensory-sampling behavior when exposed to substrates marked by conspecifics compared to substrates marked by themselves. The differences between agonistic behavior of residents and intruders, and the ability to discriminate between own and conspecific scentmarks are consistent with the hypothesis of territoriality for this species. /// Para animales territoriales, anuncio y defensa agresiva podra llevar a la expulsin de intrusos. Conducimos dos experimentos de laboratorio para determinar si el comportamiento agresivo y quimo-sensorio de la pequea salamandra selvtica, Plethodon serratus, es consistente con la hiptesis de territorialidad. En el primer experimento, ataques abiertos fueron hechos slo por los residentes, y aparentamente los intrusos evitaron confrotacin con los residentes. Dehido a que los individuos fueron examinados igualmente como residentes e intrusos, los resultados indican que la residencia tiene una ventaja inherente que es independiente de factores como tamao de cuerpo o experiencia. En el segundo experimento, individuos ejecutaron ms pruebas de comportamientos quimo-sensorios cuando fueron expuestos a un rea marcada por conspecficos, comparada con reas marcadas por ellos mismos. La differencia entre comportamiento agonstico de los residentes e intrusos, y la habilidad de discriminar entre rastros olfatorios propios y los conspecficos son consistentes con la hiptesis de territorialidad para esta especie.
30055326|We report 60 new county records for Texas reptiles and amphibians. Many of these records were found in herpetological collections recently donated to The University of Texas at Arlington Collection of Vertebrates (UTA) by Sam Houston State University and Texas Wesleyan University. The other records were collected by us or found among material originally deposited in the UTA collection. /// Presentamos 60 nuevos registros de anfibios y reptelis de condados del estado de Texas. Muchos de estos registros se encontraron en colecciones herpetolgicas recientemente donadas a la Coleccin de Vertebrados de la Universidad de Texas en Arlington (UTA). Las donaciones provienen de Sam Houston State University y de Texas Wesleyan University. Los otros registros fueron colectados por nosotros o se encontraron en material previamnente depositado en la coleccin de UTA.
30055327|I studied habitat use by semi-aquatic snakes on a reclaimed strip mine in northeast Texas. I trapped snakes of the genera Agkistrodon and Nerodia at ten study ponds during two years. Additionally, five adult male Nerodia erythrogaster and five adult male N. rhombifer were tracked using radiotelemetry to compare habitat use between these two species, the most abundant snake species at the study site. The intraspecific density of N. erythrogaster and N. fasciata did not differ statistically among the ponds. The density of N. rhombifer was not uniform among the ponds, but mining history, pond age, shoreline length, and shoreline vegetation did not explain the observed among pond differences. However, when the data from all ponds were combined, more N. rhombifer were captured in vegetated than unvegetated areas. The density of Agkistrodon piscivorus was not uniform among the ponds; the presence of a forested bottomland abutting one pond may have accounted for its high density there. Radio-tagged N. rhombifer were more closely associated with water than were radio-tagged N. erythrogaster. In the summer, N. rhombifer spent more time near permanent ponds than did N. erythrogaster, which spent relatively more time near temporary bodies of water. In the autumn, however, as N. rhombifer increased its use of temporary water sources, the use of permanent ponds vs. temporary sources did not differ significantly between the species. The results of this study indicate that semi-aquatic snake populations can recover quickly after surface mining, provided that ponds and other low-lying areas are created in the reclamation process and that there is a nearby source pool for colonization. /// El hbitat utilizado por serpientes semiacuticas fue estudiado en el proceso de restauracin de una mina a cielo abierto en el noreste de Texas. Durante dos aos se capturaron serpientes de los gneros Agkistrodon y Nerodia en diez charcas. Adems, cinco machos adultos de Nerodia erythrogaster y cinco machos adultos de N. rhombifer fueron seguidos utilizando radiotelemetra con el fin de comparar el uso del hbitat entre estas dos especies, que son las ms abundantes en el sitio de estudio. No se encontr una diferencia estadsticamente significativa entre las densidades intraespecficas de N. erythrogastery N. fasciata en las charcas estudiadas. La densidad de N. rhombifer no fue uniforme entre las charcas, pero la historia minera, edad de las charcas, longitud de la playa, y vegetacin de la playa no explicaron las diferencias observadas entre las charcas. Sin embargo, al combinarse todos los datos provenientes de las charcas, se encontr que N. rhombifer fue capturada en reas con mayor vegetacin. La densidad de Agkistrodon piscivorus tampoco fue uniforme ertre las charcas. La presencia de un reducto boscoso adyacente a una de las charcas estudiadas podra explicar la alta densidad de especmenes en dicho sitio. Los especmenes de N. rhombifer localizados con radios tuvieron una mayor asociacin con los cuerpos de agua que los de N. erythrogaster. Durante el verano, N. rhombifer pas ms tiempo cerca de las charcas permanentes que N. erythrogaster, quien permaneci ms tiempo cerca de cuerpos de agua temporales. En el otoo, N. rhombifer increment el uso de cuerpos de agua temporales, por lo que el uso de cuerpos temporales contra permanentes ya no mostr una diferencia significativa entre dichas especies. Los resultados de este estudio indican que poblaciones de serpientes semiacuticas pueden recuperarse rpidamente despus de las operaciones de minera a cielo abierto, siempre que en el proceso de restauracin se incluya la construccin de charcas y depresones y de que haya cerca una poblacin para colonizar dichos sitios.
30055328|Because of sympatry with Sceloporus undulatus speari, the absence of any convincing evidence of intergradation with that subspecies or with S. u. consobrinus (the only adjacent subspecies of S. undulatus), and the consistent maintenance of its prominent distinctive characteristics throughout its range, we conclude that the population formerly designated as S. u. belli is properly ranked as a species, S. belli./// Debido a la simpatra con Sceloporus u. speari, la ausencia de cualquier evidencia convincente de intergradacin con sta subespecie o con S. u. consobrinus (las nicas subespecies de S. undulatus con quien es paraptrica), y el mantenimiento consistente de sus caractersticas prominentes distintivas a lo largo de su distribucin, concluimos que la poblacin anteriormente designada como S. u. belli es una especie, S. belli.
30055329|Intertropical North American semiarid ecosystems have high biological diversity. The floristic and phytogeographical importance of the Tehuacn-Cuicatln region having around 30% endemic species has long been recognized, but little is known about its vegetation-environment relationships. The objectives of this paper were to investigate the altitudinal variability of climatic and soil factors and the associated changes of vegetation types, life-form diversity, and floristic diversity. A second question regarding the altitudinal distribution of plants of different biogeographical affinities was also addressed, i.e., how does the number of genera of different biogeographical affinities vary with altitude in this intertropical region. Linear regressions of rainfall and temperature on altitude showed an increase of 300 mm of precipitation and a decrease of 7.4C for 1,000 m of increase in altitude. This lapse rate is similar to those found in other semiarid ranges. Canonical correspondence analysis suggested that altitude and soil variables that were highly correlated with altitude (nitrogen content, organic matter content, carbonate content, and pH) explained most of the variability of the vegetation ranging from microphyllous scrublands with succulents at low altitude, to open deciduous scrublands at intermediate altitude, to sclerophyllous woodlands above 2,000 m. Alpha-diversity measurements indicated that the species number increases with altitude, whereas species equitability did not vary significantly. As in other semiarid ranges, this increase of alpha diversity indicated that, at a local scale, species richness is limited by water scarcity. This is in contradiction with results obtained when studying semiarid regions at larger (continental) scales, where other factors may be acting, and dryness seems to favor species and life form diversity. Beta-diversity was higher at low altitudes indicating that, in spite of its lower species richness, microphyllous scrublands were spatially more heterogeneous than sclerophyllous woodlands. In microphyllous scrublands, most species belonged to a few life-forms, whereas in sclerophyllous woodlands species were more evenly distributed among life-forms. Taxa of boreal and cosmopolitan affinities were more abundant in sclerophyllous woodlands, whereas those of pantropical affinity were more abundant in microphyllous scrublands and open deciduous scrublands. Genera of megamexican and neotropical affinities were evenly distributed along altitude and vegetation types. /// Las regiones semiridas intertropicales de Norte Amrica tienen una alta diversidad biolgica. La importancia florstica y fitogeogrfica de una de ellas, la regin de Tehuacn-Cuicatln con aproximadamente 10,000 km de extensin y un 30% de especies vasculares endmicas, ha sido reconocida desde hace tiempo. Sin embargo, muy poco se conoce sobre las relaciones vegetacin-ambiente. Los objetivos de este trabajo fueron investigar la variacin altitudinal de factores climticos y edficos y los cambios asociados en tipos de vegetacin, diversidad de formas de vida y diversidad florstica. Un segundo aspecto concerniente a la distribucin altitudinal de plantas de diferentes afinidades biogeogrficas en esta regin intertropical fue tambin abordado. Regresiones lineales mostraron un aumento de 300 mm de precipitacin y una disminucin de 7.4C de temperatura por cada 1,000 m de incremento en altitud. Estos resultados son similares a los encontrados en otras regiones semiridas. Un anlisis cannico de correspondencias mostr que altitud variables edficas altamente correlacionadas con ella (pH, contenidos de nitrgeno, materia orgnica y carbonato) explican la mayor parte de la variabilidad de la vegetacin. Los tipos de vegetacin variaron desde matorrales micrfios con suculentas a baja altitud, a bosques bajos deciduos a altitudes intermedias, hasta matorrales esclerfilos por arriba de los 2,000 m. El nmero de especies por censo aument con la altitud, mientras que la equitabilidad no vari. Como en otras regiones semiridas, este aumento de la diversidad alfa indica que, a escala local, la riqueza de especies es limitada por la falta de agua. Esto se contradice con resultados obtenidos estuadiando las zonas semiridas a escalas mayores (continentales), donde otros factores pueden estar actuando, y la disminucin de las precipitaciones parece favorecer la dividersidad de especies y formas de vida. La diversidad  entre censos realizados a altitudes contiguas fue mayor a baja altitud indicando que, a pesar de una menor riqueza especfica, los matorrales micrfilos son espacialmente ms heterogneos que los matorrales esclerfilos. La variacin en la dominancia de formas de vida indic que la mayora de las especies en los matorrales micrfilos pertenece a unas pocas formas de vida, mientras que en los matorrales esclerfilos el nmero de especies est distribudo ms uniformemente entre las distintas formas de vida. Los taxa de afinidad boreal y cosmopolita son ms abundantes en los matorrales esclerfilos, mientras que los gneros de afinidad pantropical son ms abundantes en los matorrales micrfilos y en los bosques bajos deciduos. Los gneros de afinidades megamexicana y neotropicales se distribuyen de manera uniforme tanto entre tipos de vegetacin como a lo largo del gradiente altitudinal.
30055330|Germination characteristics for 24 species and survival of seedlings for 12 species of plants from the Tamaulipan thornscrub of northern Mexico were studied. Experiments were conducted to compare rate and extent of germination at mean summer (28C) and winter (12C) temperatures. Seedlings survival was studied under three light conditions: (i) direct sunlight, (ii) under artificial shade, and (iii) under thornscrub. Only 14 species had sufficient germination to allow for statistical analysis. Most species germinated in less than 10 days. Some species required scarification to promote germination. All species germinated at mean summer temperature and most germinated at mean winter temperature. Most species had a tendency to establish more seedlings in artificial shade. Seedlings in artificial shade showed a trend to be taller than those established under direct sunlight or under thornscrub. /// Se estudiaron caracteristicas de germinacin de 24 especies y sobre vivencia de plntulas de 12 especes vegetales del matorral espinoso tamaulipeco del noreste de Mxico. Se efectuaron experimentos para comparar la tasa y el porcentaje de germinaci6n a la temperatura media de verano (28C) y de invierno (12C). Se estudi el establecmiento de plntulas bajo tres condiciones de luz: (i) sol directo, (ii) bajo sombra artificial y (iii) bajo matorral. Slo 14 especies germinaron lo suficiente para permitir un anlisis estadstico. La mayora de las especies germinaron en menos de 10 dias. Algunas especies requirieron de escarificacin para promover la germinacin. Todas las especies germinaron a la temperatura media de verano y la mayora germin a la temperatura media invernal. La mayora de las especies mostraron una tendencia a establecer ms plntulas bajo sombra artificial. Las plntulas bajo sombra artificial mostraron una tendencia a ser ms altas que aquellas establecidas bajo sol directo o bajo matorral.
30055331|Physical and chemical properties of soils at the Kelso Sand Dunes in the Mojave Desert were quantitatively examined using 120, 100-m circular plots randomly located on dunes, non-dune (Larrea tridentata-dominated) habitats, and the ecotone (marginal dune) between them. Plant communities on dunes consisted of a mixture of dune species and species established in the adjacent, non-dune habitats. Soil organic matter, gravimetric soil moisture, soil bulk density, percentages of silt and clay, as well as total soil nitrogen and phosphorus were significantly lower on dunes relative to adjacent, non-dune Larrea habitats. In contrast, percent sand and soil temperatures at the surface and at 15-cm depth were significantly higher on dune sites relative to the nondune sites. Soil pH and soil salinity did not differ significantly between the dune and non-dune habitats. The inland Kelso Sand Dunes in the Mojave Desert exhibit a unique set of soil conditions when compared with the adjacent Larrea-dominated shrubland. /// Las propiedades quimicas  fisicas de suelo ubicado en Kelso Sand Dunes en el Desierto Mojave fueron cuantitativamente examinadas utilizando 120 sitos circulares de 100-m distribuidos al azar en ecotono (duna marginal) entre dunas, suelo regular (dominado de Larrea tridentata) y cieno ellos. La flora en las dunas consiste de una mezcla de especies de dunas y las establecidas en los habitat adyarentes de suelo regular. La materia orgnica de los suelos, humedad gravmetrica, densdad, porcentajes de arclla y como el contenido de nitrgeno y fsforo fueron bastante ms bajos adyacentes en dunas que en suelo normales donde abundan plantas Larrea. En contraste, los porcentajes de arena y temperatura del suelo en la superficie y hasta 15-cm se encontraron ms altos en las zonas de dunas. La acidez del suelo (pH) y salinidad se encontraron ms o menos uniforme en los dos tipos de suelo. Kelso Sand Dunes en el interior del Desierto Mojave presenta caractersticas de suelo finicas y diferentes de los suelos dominados por Larrea en los alrededores.
30055332|From January to May, 1993 we collected 725 skulls from barn owl (Tyto alba) pellets at three active nests in foothills of the Sacramento Mountains, southern New Mexico. To estimate rodent abundance, we concurrently live-trapped 1,555 rodents, from 48 trapping grids distributed in six habitat types near the nests, and marked 1,236 of these with monel ear tags. Prey taken by owls was not concordant with any possible combination of availability. Barn owls demonstrated a considerable selectivity for Sigmodon and Perognathus, while failing to capture Chaetodipus and Peromyscus in numbers representative of their abundance. Sigmodon was abundant in only one uncommon habitat type that was not close to nests. Barn owl selection for Sigmodon indicates that they forage in favored habitat patches. Further, because Reithrodontomys and Peromyscus also occurred in this habitat but were not taken in great numbers, we also conclude that barn owls selected favored prey species within favored habitat patches. /// De enero a mayo de 1993 coleccionamos 725 crneos en gstrulas de lechuza (Tyto alba) de tres nidos localizados en las partes bajas de las Montafas de Sacramento, regin sur de Nuevo Mxico. Para evaluar la abundanca relativa de roedores, establecimos 48 rejillas de trampeo distribuidas a travs de seis tipos de hbitat cerca de las reas de anidaje. Capturamos 1,555 individuos, marcando 1,236 de stos en la oreja con chapas monel. Las presas obtenidas por las lechuzas no concordaban en relacin a su disponibilidad. Las lechuzas exhibieron una preferencia considerable por roedores de los gneros Sigmodon y Perognathus, pero no atra paron Chaetodipus ni Peromyscus en proporcion a su abundancia. Sigmodon fue abundante solamente en un tipo de hbitat poco comn lejos de los nidos. La seleccin de Sigmodon sugiere que las lechuzas forrajeaban en parches de hbitat favoritos. Adems, el hecho de que Reithrodontomys y Peromyscus eran abundantes en este hibitat pero no fueron seleccionados tambin sugiere que las lechuzas seleccionaron sus presas favoritas dentro de los parches de hbitat favoritos.
30055333|Northwestern Mexico is assumed to be one of the most important wintering areas for western sandpipers (Calidris mauri). However, abundance has only been quantified recently via aerial surveys. In 1992 we censused Chametla beach within ensenada de La Paz, to quantify shorebirds' seasonal variation. The western sandpiper was the most numerous species during fall migration (late July to early November), and during the winter period (November to March) especially. In contrast to the eastern shore of the Gulf of California, we did not detect a spring migration increase, and assumed that the area is used exclusively for the fall migration and for wintering. There are two habitats available: marsh and mudflats. The latter was the more important for feeding. The distribution of western sandpipers was constrained by seasonal tide levels as more habitat is available during fall migration. /// El noroeste de Mxico es considerado una de las reas de invernacin ms importantes para Calidris mauri. Sin embargo, su abundancia slo ha sido cuantificada a travs de censos areos. En 1992 censamos la playa de Chametla, en la ensenada de La Paz para determinar su variacin estacional. Calidris mauri fue la especie ms abundante durante la migracin de otoo (finales de julio a principios de noviembre) y en el invierno (de noviembre a marzo). A diferencia de la costa este del Golfo de California, no detectamos un incremento en la abundancia por la migracin de primavera. Chametla es utilizada slo en el otoo e invierno. Existen dos hbitats disponibles: la marisma y las planicies lodosas. Este ltimo fue el ms importante para la alimentacin. La distribucin de Calidris mauri estuvo determinada por los niveles de marea estacionales, debido a que hay ms hbitat disponible durante la migracin de otoo.
30055334|Soldier beetles of two species, Chauliognathus basalis and C. deceptus, were examined to test two hypotheses of assortative mating: (1) male and female availability associated with temporal covariation in body sizes and (2) female availability associated with a large-male mating advantage. Four samples were taken, at different times during the mating season, from each of two sites. Males were identified to species by their copulatory organs. Females were placed tentatively in the same species as their mates, and then this identification was confirmed by speciesspecific allometric relationships. In two of the eight samples, body sizes (as measured by elytron length) of mates were positively correlated. At both sites, body size did not change with progression of the mating season, thereby disproving the temporal covariation hypothesis. Where assortative mating was found, correlations between the sizes of mates consisted of points symmetrically distributed around the regression line, which indicates no mating advantage to larger males. The two samples that exhibited assortative mating differed from the other six samples in that they contained conspecific pairs of both species. Each species exhibited assortative mating only when the other species was present. Thus, surprisingly, each species altered its mating behavior in the presence of the other species. /// Escarabajos soldado de dos especies, Chauliognathus basalis y C. deceptus, fueron examinados para probar dos hiptesis de apareamiento de semejanza: (1) la disponibilidad de machos y hembras asociada a la covariacin temporal del tamao corporal y (2) la disponibilidad de la hembra asociada con la ventaja de apareamiento del macho grande. Cuatro muestras fueron tomadas, a diferentes tiempos durante la temporada de apareamiento, en cada uno de dos sitios. Los machos fueron identificados a nivel especie por medio de los rganos copulatorios. Las hembras fueron colocadas tentativamente en la misma especie que sus compaeros, y luego esta identificacin fue confirmada por medio de relaciones alomtricas especficas de ambas especies. En dos de las ocho muestras, los tamaos corporales (meddo por el largo del 1itro) por pareja estuvieron correlacionados positivamente. En ambos sitios, el tamao corporal no cambi a travs de la temporada de apareamiento, rechazando la hiptesis de covariacin temporal. Cuando apareamiento de semejanza fue encontrado, las correlaciones entre los tamaos por pareja consistieron en puntos simtricamente distribuidos alrededor de la linea de regresin, lo que indica que no hay ventaja en apareamiento del macho grande. Las dos muestras que exhibieron apareamiento de semejanza se diferenciaron de las otras seis muestras debido a que ellas contenan parejas conespecficas de ambas especies. Cada especie exhibi apareamiento de semejanza solamente cuando la otra especie estaba presente. Por lo tanto, sorprendentemente, cada especie alter su comportamiento de apareamiento en presencia de la otra especie.
30055335|Although terrestrial molluscs make important contributions to the taxonomic and functional diversity of tropical systems, little is known about their ecology. Caracolus caracolla is a large terrestrial snail, common in a wide variety of habitats on Puerto Rico, including the tabonuco rain forest. To determine if this snail exhibits habitat selection, we surveyed 19 taxonomic and structural attributes of the understory, as well as snail abundance, in 60 sites within the tabonuco rain forest during the dry season. Caracolus caracolla had a clumped spatial distribution, and was associated more often than expected by chance with the shrub, Piper glabrescens, and less often than expected on three other common understory plants. Although much of the variation in snail density (73.4%) appeared unrelated to habitat descriptors, patches of forest with abundant ground cover at 0.15 m or high plant apparency (foliar development) at 1.98 m harbored high snail densities. The spatial distribution of C. caracolla was linked to microhabitat conditions that reduce the likelihood of desiccation. We hypothesize that smaller snails occupy areas of the understory where the likelihood of desiccation is reduced, whereas larger individuals, less encumbered by physiological constraints related to desiccation, expand their niche to include upper reaches of the understory where they take advantage of additional resources and enhance the likelihood of mate encounter. /// Si bien es sabido que los moluscos terrestres contribuyen de manera importante a la diversidad funcional y taxonmica en ecosistemas tropicales, es poco lo que se conoce de su ecologa. Caracolus caracolla es un caracol terrestre de gran tamao, comn en una amplia variedad de hbitats en Puerto Rico, entre ellos el bosque tropical de tabonuco. Con el objetivo de determinar si esta especie muestra selecci6n de habitat, se muestrearon 19 caracteristicas taxon6micas y estructurales del sotobosque y se estim la abundancia del caracol en 60 sitios dentro del bosque tropical de tabonuco. El muestreo se llev a cabo durante la estacin seca. Caracolus caracolla mostr una distribucin espacial agrupada, se encontr asociado con mayor frecuencia de la esperada por azar con el arbusto Piper glabrescens y menos de lo esperado con otras tres especies vegetales del sotobosque. Aunque mucha de la variacin en densidad (73.4%) de caracoles parece no tener relacin con los descriptores de hbitat seleccionados, en parches de bosque con cobertura abundante al nivel de 0.15 m, o de alto desarrollo foliar al nivel de 1.98 m, se encontr una mayor densidad de caracoles. La distribucin espacial de C. caracolla est aparentemente ligada a condiciones del microhbitat que tienden a reducir la probabilidad de desecacin. Nuestra hptesis es que los caracoles ms pequefios ocupan aquellas reas del sotobosque donde la probabilidad de desecacin es reducida, en tanto que individuos mayores, menos sujetos a restricciones fisiolgicas relacionadas con la desecacin, expanden su nicho para inclur zonas ms altas del sotobosque donde pueden aprovechar recursos adicionales disponsibles en esta rea asi como aumentar su probabilidad de reproducirse.
30055336|Laboratory studies of insect behavior in microcosms were used to evaluate the tendency of Laccophilus maculosus and Stictotarsus roffii (Coleoptera, Dytiscidae), Tropisternus ellipticus (Coleoptera, Hydrophilidae) and Graptocorixa serrulata (Hemiptera, Corixidae) to disperse by flying and/or crawling when periods of drought caused stream pools to contract in Sycamore Creek, an intermittent Sonoran Desert stream in central Arizona. The principal cues tested for dispersal behavior were loss of water in the three beetle species, and rising water temperature in the Corixidae. Laccophilus maculosus and G. serrulata responded by flying, while S. roffii and T ellipticus responded by both flying and crawling out of the experimental aquaria. Graptocorixa serrulata was the most sensitive to high temperatures, while L. maculosus was the most tolerant, surviving well at 400C. Resistance to desiccation was low in all species, and most individuals dispersed before the third day of complete dryness. Those remaining did not survive. We suggest that the dispersal mechanism used by the various taxa depends on body morphology and the energy cost of dispersal. /// Bajo una aproximacin experimental en el laboratorio se estudi la respuesta de dispersin de cuatro especies de insectos acuticos, Laccophilus maculosus, Stictotarsus roffi (Coleoptera, Dytiscidae), Tropisternus ellipticus (Coleoptera, Hydrophilidae) y Graptocorixa serrulata (Hemiptera, Corixidae), frente a condiciones ambientales adversas, como el incremento de temperatura y la disminucin del nivel del agua durante la fase de sequa en Sycamore Creek, un ro intermitente del desierto de Sonora (Arizona). El principal estmulo para la dispersin en las tres especies de colepteros estudiadas fue la prdida de agua, mientras que el corxido respondi al incremento de temperatura. Laccophilus maculosus y G. serrulata utilizaron el vuelo como mecanismo de dispersin, mientras que S. rofflii y T ellipticus se dispersaron tanto por vuelo como andando. Graptocorixa serrulata fue la ms sensible a altas temperaturas, mientras que L. maculosus fue la ms tolerante, sobreviviendo a 40C. La resistencia a la desecacin fue baja en todas las especies, y la mayora de los individuos se dispersaron antes del tercer da de exposicin a la ausencia de agua. Los individuos que permanecieron en los acuarios murieron. Se plantea una hiptesis para explicar los diferentes mecanismos de dispersin utilizados por las especies de colepteros estudiadas en funcin de su morfologa y el costo energtico para la dispersin.
30055337|La salamandra denominada Nototriton sanctibarbarus en esta revista por McCranie y Wilson en 1996, carece de las sinapomorfias caracteristicas de Nototriton, pero, sin embargo, presenta los caracteres diagnsticos del genero Dendrotriton. Nototriton sanctibarbarus es transferida por consiguiente al gnero Dendrotriton y se describen aspectos de su morfologa y osteologa. La especie se compara con otros representantes de Dendrotriton, que,en conjunto se localizan a mais de 300 km hacia el Oeste y de los que es claramente diferenciable a nivel especfico.
30055338|En un estudio histiolgico anterior, se descubri que los lagartos hembras, Urosaurus ornatus, tienen una estructura para guardar esperma dentro de la regin uterovaginal de sus organos reproductivos. En este estudio, investigamos que las hembras si pueden producir crias mediante el uso de esperma guardado. Se permiti que las hembras copularan con los machos antes de poner su primera de dos o tres hueveras posibles durante una temporada reproductiva. Despus, aislamos a cada hembra. Algunas hembras produjeron cras de huevadas subsiguientes. As que las hembras U. ornatus pueden usar el esperma guardado para producir crias durante una sola temporada reproductiva. Esta capacidad puede ser importante (1) en poblaciones de baja densidad donde los machos muertos no sern reemplazados o (2) en poblaciones de alta densidad donde la competencia entre el esperma de varios machos puede ser importante en el sistema de copular.
30055339|Muestras de zooplancton colectadas durante 1994 y 1995 en Stockton Reservoir,Pomme de Terre Reservoir y Lake of the Ozarks del sur de Missouri, aportaron varios especmenes de Bosmina (Eubosmina) coregoni. Este reporte brinda el primer registro de B. (E.) coregoni en Missouri al igual que documenta la extensa distribucin en el sur de este extico cladcero en Norteamrica.
30055340|En el presente estudio se trampearon pequeos mamiferos en 15 estaciones de muestreo. Las estaciones se localizaron al largo de un transecto de 35 km, en un gradiente con montculos de Solenopsis invicta que iban desde colonias con multiples reinas hasta sitios sin infestaciones reportadas. El xito del trampeo en funcin de la densidad de montculos de S. invicta fue analizado para probar la hiptesis de que la abundancia de pequeos mamferos no es afectada por la densidad de montculos de S. invicta. Cinco especies de pequeos mamferos fueron capturados: Microtus pinetorum, Mus musculus, Peromyscus leucopus, Rattus rattus, Reithrodontomys fulvescens, y Sigmodon hispidus. Se realizaron tres anfilisis de regresin, uno con el total de capturas para todas las especies, otro con slo las capturas de S. hispidus y otro excluyendo a esta especie. Los resultados empleando el nimero de montculos/m como estimador del total de capturas para todas las especies fueron mezclados. El anlisis empleando slo a S. hispidus no mostr una relacin significativa, mientras que las regresiones en las que se excluye a S. hispidus s fueron significativas. Este estudio muestra una relacin inversa entre el nmero de pequeos mamiferos capturados (excluyendo S. hispidus) y la cantidad de montculos/m de S. invicta. Mientras que las capturas de S. hispidus parecen no estar relacionadas con la densidad de montculos de S. invicta.
30055341|Se registra por primera vez el kinkajou (Carnivora: Procyonidae) en la Isla de Cozumel, Quintana Roo, Mxico. En marzo de 1995 se recolect un crneo de kinkajou adulto de sexo indeterminado a 2.6 km E de la localidad "El Cedral" (2021'43"N, 8658'27"O). El crneo se encuentra depositado en la Colecci6n Nacional de Mamferos, Instituto de Biologa, Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mxico (IBUNAM 38354). Las medidas craneales fueron comparadas con las de otros ocho ejemplares depositados en la misma coleccin, recolectados en la parte continental de la Pennsula de Yucatn. Tanto para machos como para hembras, todas las medias fueron ms grandes que las del ejemplar insular. Sin embargo, stas no presentaron diferencias estadsticas significativas. Se sugiere la realizacin de estudios para conocer el estado poblacional del kinkajou en la Isla de Cozumel y determinar si las poblaciones insulares son taxonomicamente diferentes a las del continente. Este registro incrementa a 37 especies el nsimero total de mamiferos con distribucin reconocida para la Isla de Cozumel.
30055342|Se reporta una extensin en el rea de distribucin del lince (Lynx rufus), por medio de registros obtenidos con trampas de cmara, para la Reserva de la Bisfera Chamela-Cuixmala en las coordenadas UTM 496926 Este, 2156661 Norte. Este es el primer registro documentado para el bosque tropical caducifolio de Jalisco.
30055343|Una comadreja de cola larga (Mustela frenata) fue observada depositando 19 mamferos dentro de su guarida por un lapso de cuatro horas en un rea de acampar muy visitada en Rocky Mountain National Park. Las presas recolectadas por la comadreja eran consistentes con su dieta reportada en la literatura. Es posible que la comadreja estuviera alimentando jvenes o guardando comida para su uso posterior.
30055347|Moapa coriacea is endemic to the headwaters (Warm Springs area) of the Muddy River, Clark County, Nevada. The Warm Springs area was snorkeled and Moapa coriacea and Gila seminuda enumerated in August 1994 after a fire, and in May 1997 after a diversion dam had been removed from the downstream end. Gila seminuda had been reported in greatest abundance downstream from the Warm Springs area and we estimated the population there through mark and recapture from January to March 1995. There was a dramatic reduction in native fishes in the Warm Springs area between 1994 and 1997, coinciding with the invasion of Oreochromis aurea. Downstream from the Warm Springs area Gila seminuda was the most frequently netted species while O. aurea was relatively scarce. The fish population (native and non-native) decreased in a downstream direction; the causative factor(s) have not been identified. /// Moapa coriacea es endmica de las aguas principales (rea de manantiales) del ro sucio en Clark County, Nevada. El rea de manantiales fue buceada y Moapa coriacea y Gila seminuda, enumeradeas en agosto de 1994 despus de un fuego y en mayo de 1997 despus de la desviacin de una presa, han sido removidas ro abajo. Gila seminuda ha sido reportada en gran abundancia ro abajo del rea de los manantiales y hemos estimado la poblacin a trav de marcaje y recaptura de enero a marzo de 1995. Hubo una dramtica reduccin en peces nativos en al rea de los manantiales entre 1994 y 1997, coincidiendo con la invasin de Oreochromis aurea. Ri abajo del rea de los manantiales Gila seminuda fue la especie capturada con mayor frecuencia mientras que 0. aurea fue relativamente escaza. La poblacin de peces (nativos y no nativos) disminuyo en direccin rio abajo; el factor(es) causante no ha sido identificado.
30055348|We determined intra-and interspecific patterns of habitat selection of mice living in an environment with a simple, but extremely variable resource base: the pinyon (Pinus monophylla)-juniper (Juniperus monosperma) woodland of the western Great Basin. Although numbers of deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) and pinyon mice (P truei) showed similar responses to variations in resource abundance, the timing and age-related composition of this response in deer mice differed markedly from that in pinyon mice. Pinyon mice were resident on our study grids, but deer mice migrated onto the grids in response to a heavy pinyon cone crop. There were more significant correlations in intraspecific (sex-age) abundance in low cone years than in high cone years, and there was a moderate negative correlation between subadult and adult female pinyon mice during high cone years. There was an overall pattern for both Peromyscus species of fewer and weaker correlations between abundances and habitat characteristics during low cone years. During high cone years both fall and winter breeding activity was evident, and pinyon mice showed a three-fold higher rate of winter breeding than deer mice. All age classes of pinyon mice and deer mice showed a trend of higher between-season residency during low cone years. We conclude that different models of habitat selection operate dependent on the sex-age segment of the population, season, and quantity and quality of the resource base. /// Evaluamos cmo la estructura de poblaciones de ratones responde a cambios naturales en los recursos y abundancia de especies co-habitantes en largos perodos. Nos planteamos esta tarea determinando los patrones de seleccin de hbitat intra e interespecificos de los ratones viviendo en un ambiente con recursos simples pero extremadamente variables de pifion, Pinus monophylla, Juniperus monosperma, en la arboleda del Western Great Basin. Aunque numerosos ratones de venados (Peromyscus maniculatus) y ratones de pifion (P truei) mostraron respuestas similares a las variaciones en la abundancia de los recursos a travs de todo el estudio, la seleccin del momento oportuno y composicin por edades de sta respuesta en ratones de venado difiere marcadamente de aquella en ratones de pifion. Los P truei fueron residentes en nuestras reas de estudio pero los R maniculatus migraron hacia stas reas en respuesta a la gran cosecha de conos de pifion. El patrn general fue uno de neutralidad para correlaciones de abundancia intraespecificas (sexo-edad) en ya sea afios de poca o mucha abundancia de conos, aunque hubo correlaciones mis significativas en afios de poca abundancia de conos, y hubo una correlacin negativa moderada entre hembras de P. truei subadultas y adultas durante los afios de mucha abundancia de conos. Hubo pocas correlaciones significativas interespecificas, pero los P truei y P maniculatus tendieron a relacionarse negativamente durante los anos de mucha y poca abundancia de conos. Hubo un paton general para ambas especies de Peromyscus de pocas y dbiles correlaciones entre abundancia y caractersticas del hbitat en aios de pocos conos. En aios con muchos conos hubo reproduccin en otoio e invierno y los P truei mostraron una tasa de reproduccin en invierno tres veces la reproduccin la de P maniculatus. Todas las categoras de edades de los R truei y P maniculatus mostraron una tendencia de mayor residencia entre estaciones en aios de pocos conos, que en aios de muchos conos. Concluimos que diferentes modelos de seleccin de hbitat operan de una manera dinmica, dependiendo de la edad y sexo de la poblacin, estacin del aio y cantidad y calidad de los recursos. En este estudio el modelo ideal de seleccin libre es la condicin de sobre obtencin, con comportamiento desptico entre individuos durante picos en la disponibilidad de recursos.
30055349|We studied numerical and physiological responses of populations of pinyon mice (Peromyscus truei) during low abundance to supplemental feeding in 1990-1991 in the White Mountains, Inyo Co., California. We tested six predictions regarding the effect of food on the population size, reproduction, and movements of mice. Overall, the addition of food to three of six trapping grids resulted in (1) no treatment effect on the population sizes of pinyon mice; (2) larger numbers of new adult mice (i.e., immigrants) on treatment grids the first year; (3) no effect on reproductive activity of pinyon mice; (4) no effect on concentrations of reproductive hormones or masses of mice; (5) no effect on distances moved between telemetry loci; and (6) no evidence of larger home ranges on control grids than treatment grids. We conclude that pinyon mice were not food-limited during our study, but that food did somewhat influence population dynamics. Based on data showing natural population highs in 1993, we suggest that our distribution of feeder boxes may have provided concentrated and stable food patches that caused adult pinyon mice to defend the resources, and keep population sizes reduced. /// Se ha estudiado la respuerta numrica y fisiolgica en poblaciones de ratones pinyon (Peromyscus truei) a alimentacin suplementara durante 1990-1991 en White Mountains, Inyo Co., California. Se comprobaron seis predicciones con respecto al impacto de comida en el tamafio de la poblacin, la reproduccin y la migracin de ratones. En general, la alimentaci6n suplementaria en tres de las seis reas de muestreo result en 1) no hubo cambio neto en los tamaios de las poblaciones de ratones pinyon, 2) aumento en el nfmero de ratones adultos nuevos (imigrantes) en reas de muestreo en el primer aio, 3) no hubo efecto en la actividad reproductora de ratones pinyon, 4) no hubo efecto en las concentraciones de hormones reproductivas o peso de ratones, 5) no hubo efecto en las distancias migratorias entre loci telemetricos; y (6) no hubo diferencia en tamaio de territorios entre reas con y sin alimentacin suplementaria. Se concluy que ratones pinyon no fueron limitados por comida durante esta investigacin, pero que la alimentacin s influy en la dinaimica poblacional. Otros datos que indican aumentos naturales en la poblacin en 1993, sugiere que nuestra distribucin de cajas de alimentacin podra haber dado fuentes estables y abundantes de alimentacin causando que los ratones adultos difundieran estos recursos, controlando asi los tamafios de las poblaciones.
30055350|A survey to detect presence of sylvatic plague in the endangered Mexican prairie dog (Cynomys mexicanus) was completed throughout its geographical range during June, July, and August 1993, and December 1995. Blood samples from 52 Mexican prairie dogs from 14 colonies in northern Mexico, 10 spotted ground squirrels (Spermophilus spilososma) and one Ord's kangaroo rat (Dipodomys ordii) from a single colony, and 15 kit foxes (Vulpes macrotis) from 9 prairie dog colonies were analyzed by passive hemagglutination tests. All blood specimens tested negative for sylvatic plague antibodies. Three species of fleas, Pulex simulans, Thrassis fotus, Oropsylla hirsuta (Opisocrostis hirsutus) and one species of tick Ixodes sp. were collected from 25 Mexican prairie dogs from 7 colonies in Nuevo Le6n and Coahuila. Extracts from ectoparasites failed to produce plague in inoculated mice. /// Se realiz una investigacin para detectar la presencia de peste selvitica en el perrito llanero mexicano (Cynomys mexicanus) a lo largo de su distribucin geogrfica durante los meses de junio, julio, y agosto de 1993, y diciembre de 1995. Muestras de sangre de 52 perritos llaneros de 14 colonias del norte de M6xico, de 10 ardillas moteadas de tierra (Spermophilus spilososma) y de una ratita canguro de Ord (Dipodomys ordii) de una colonia de perros llaneros, y de 15 zorritas del desierto (Vulpes macrotis) de 9 colonias de perros llaneros fueron analizadas a travs de la prueba de hemaglutinaci6n pasiva. Todas las muestras de sangre tuvieron resultados negativos para la presencia de anticuerpos de la peste selvaitica. Tres especies de pulgas, Pulex simulans, Thrassis fotus, Oropsylla hirsuta (Opisocrostis hirsutus) y una especie de garrapata Ixodes sp. fueron colectadas de 25 perritos llaneros de 7 colonias en Nuevo Len y Coahuila. Ratones inoculados con extractos de los ectoparsitos no presentaron ningn signo de desarrollo de la peste.
30055351|Water developments on the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona, have not been adequately monitored for use by wildlife. We used pitfall trapping for herpetofauna, livetrapping for rodents, and transect surveys for birds to determine the small vertebrate species present and their use of three vegetation types at two water developments in 1994 and 1995. We observed 187 species of vertebrates, the majority (80%) of which were bird species. Although one water development was dry throughout the study, there was no difference in the species richness or abundance of reptiles or rodents between sites. Bird species richness and abundance was greater at the site with free-standing water. Although small mammal and reptile species used all vegetation types at each site, bird species primarily used the mesquite (Prosopis velutina) trees at the center of each site. We believe that birds and amphibians benefit from the construction of such sites to a greater extent than reptiles or rodents. /// Fuentes artificiles de agua en el refugio nacional Cabeza Prieta, Arizona, no han sido adecuadamente monitoreadas de acuerdo con su uso por la vida silvestre. Usamos huecos como trampas para herptofauna, trampas vivas para roedores y sensos en transectos para aves para determinar la presencia de vertebrados pequefios y el uso por stos de tres tipos de vegetacin en dos fuentes artificiales de agua en 1994 y 1995. Observamos 187 especies de vertebrados, la mayora (80%) de los cuales fueron especies de aves. Aunque una fuente de agua artificial estuvo seca durante todo el estudio, no hubo diferencia en el nmero de especies o abundancia de reptiles o roedores entre los sitios. La riqueza de especies de aves y su abundancia fue mayor en el sitio con agua. Aunque mamiferos pequefios y especies de reptiles usaron todos los tipos de vegetacin en ambos sitios, especies de aves usaron principalmente los rboles de mesquita (Prosopis velutina) en el centro de cada sitio. Creemos que aves y amfibios se benefician miLs de fuentes artificiales de agua que los reptiles o roedores.
30055352|Botanical diet composition of pronghorn (Antilocapra americana), gemsbok (Oryx gazella), and feral horses (Equus caballus) on White Sands Missile Range, New Mexico, was determined using fecal analysis. Pronghorn diets consisted of 58% shrubs, 20% grasses, 17% forbs, and 5% unknowns. Gemsbok diets consisted of 83% grasses, 16% shrubs, and >1% forbs and unknowns. Horse diets consisted of 91% grasses, 8% shrubs, and >1% forbs and unknowns. Dietary overlap was greatest between horses and gemsbok, and least between horses and pronghorn. Pronghorn diets overlapped least with those of horses and gemsbok, probably due to greater diversity of pronghorn diets. Key forage species (5% seasonal diet) selection varied each season among animal species suggesting the importance of season in relation to diet selection and forage diversity. /// La composicin de la dieta botnica del Antilocapra americana, Oryx gazella, y Equus caballus en White Sands Missile Range, Nuevo Mexico, fue determinada unsando anlisis fecales. La dieta de A. americana consisti6 en 58% arbustos, 20% pastos, 17% herbiceas, y 5% desconocidos. La dieta de 0. gazella consisti en 83% pastos, 16% arbustos y >1% herbceas y desconocidos. La dieta de E. caballus consisti en 91% pastos, 8% arbustos y >1% herbiceas y desconocidos. El entrecruzamiento fue mayor entre las dietas de 0. gazella y E. caballes y menor entre las de E. caballes y A. americana. La dieta de A. americana tuvo un menor entrecruzamiento con las de E. caballus y 0. gazella probablemente debido a la gran diversidad de sus dietas. La seleccion de especies claves de forrajes (5% de la dieta de temporada) vari durante cada estacin entre las especies de animales lo que sugiere la importancia de cada estacion en relaci6n con la seleccin de la dieta y diversidad de forraje.
30055353|We tested the hypothesis that burying acorns in the ground as done by Western scrub-jays (Aphelocoma californica) and storing acorns in holes drilled in the bark or other dead tissue of trees as practiced by acorn woodpeckers (Melanerpes formicivorus) alter the relative tannin and protein content of three different species of acorns common in central coastal California. Simulated caching by either procedure had no influence on the relative tannin concentrations of either Quercus douglasii or Q. agrifolia acorns compared to controls, and the effects detected in Q. lobata are unlikely to have a positive influence on the nutritional value of acorns to the birds caching them. Relative protein content increased with time in cached Q. douglasii and, to a lesser extent, Q. lobata acorns, two closely-related, low-protein species in the white oak subgenus, and decreased with time in cached compared to control Q. agrifolia acorns, a relatively high-protein species in the black oak subgenus. These results indicate that caching does not reduce tannin levels compared to controls, but may increase or decrease protein levels of stored acorns depending on the species. /// Ensayamos la hip6tesis de que enterrar bellotas como lo hace el (Aphelocoma californica) y almacenar bellotas en excavaciones en la corteza u otros tejidos muertos de irboles como lo practica Melanerpes formicivorus, cambia el contenido de taninos y protenas de tres diferentes especies comunes de bellota, muy corrientes en la costa central de California. El almacenaje simulado, en la tierra o rboles, no afect la concentraci6n relativa de taninos de las bellotas de Quercus douglasii o Q. agrifolia comparado con los controles, y los cambios detectados en bellotas de Q. lobata tendrn pocos beneficios alimenticios para los pijaros que las guardaron. El contenido relativo de proteinas aument con el tiempo para bellotas de Q. douglasii y, en menor grado las de Q. lobata, dos especies cercanas en el subgnero de robles blancos; y disminuy con el tiempo en bellotes de Q. agrifolia, una especie del subg6nero de robles negros con altos niveles de proteinas. Estos resultados indican que el almacenaje de bellotas no afect6 los niveles de taninos pero podran aumentar o disminuir los niveles de proteinas dependiendo de la especie.
30055354|Two varieties of Atriplex canescens from a disturbed site in the Navajoan desert of the Colorado Plateau were compared. Variety angustifolia could be distinguished from var. occidentalis by its greater fruit diameter (>1.5 cm) and leaf width: length ratio (>10), and absence of 6-methoxy flavonols in the leaves. Variety angustifolia was the less common variety on the site but was clearly superior to var. occidentalis in growth and water use efficiency of seedlings in a greenhouse study. Seedlings of both varieties were transplanted into caliche and dune soil at the site; growth and survival were followed over the establishment year. Variety angustifolia had 3 to 6 times greater canopy volume than var. occidentalis on both soil types, but the differences were greatest on dune soil, in which var. occidentalis had only 32% survival and showed little growth whereas var. angustifolia had nearly complete survival and positive growth over the establishment year. The results support other studies suggesting the diploid var. angustifolia is adapted to rapid establishment on unstable dune soils, whereas the slower-growing var. occidentalis may be adapted for heavier soils which retain moisture longer than dune sand. Variety angustifolia was the better choice of germplasm for revegetation of this disturbed site. \\\ Dos variedades de Atriplex canescens fueron comparadas en un sitio disturbado del desierto de Navajoa en la antiplanicie de Colorado. La variedad angustifolia pudo ser distiguida de la variedad occidentalis por el mayor diametro de su fruto (>1.5 cm), la relacin largo-aucho de la hoja (>10) y la ausencia de 6-metoxi flavonoides en las hojas. La variedad angustiflora fue la variedad menos comn en el sitio pero claramente superior a la variedad occidentalis en tamao y eficiencia en el uso de agua por sus plantas de semillero en un estudio de invernadero. Las plantas de semillero de ambas especies fueron tranplantados en suelo de caliche y dunas en el sitio y su crecimiento y supervivencia fue monitoriado durante el ano de establecimiento. La variedad angustifolia tuvo de 3 a 6 veces un canopi mayor que la variedad occidentalis en ambos tipos de suelo, pero las diferencias fueron mayores en el suelo de duna donde la variedad occidentalis tuvo nicamente un 32% de supervivencia y mostr un menor crecimiento y donde la variedad angustifolia tuvo casi una supervivencia completa y un crecimiento positivo durante el aio de establecimiento. Los resultandos apoyan otras estudios que sugieren que la variedad diploide angustifolia est adaptada a un rpido establecimiento en suelos de duna inestable, mientras que el crecimiento lento de la variedad occidentalis puede estar adaptado a suelos ms pesados los cuales retienen humedad por ms tiempo que las arenas de las dunas. La variedad angustifolia fue la mejor eleccin como germoplasma para la reforestacin de sitio disturbados.
30055355|Plateau live oak (Quercus fusiformis) trees that grow in the upland savannas on the Edwards Plateau of central Texas, USA, are thought to serve as nurse plants for Ashe juniper (Juniperus ashei) and other shrubs. To explore nurse-plant effects of live oaks, we characterized the light and temperature conditions in oak clusters with respect to azimuth and canopy positions and related these patterns to woody understory structure and development. The microclimate in oak clusters differed from that in the surrounding grasslands, and light attenuation and temperature (air and soil) varied significantly with both cardinal direction and canopy position within the oak clusters during August, September, and October. Understory height was significantly affected by canopy position and generally decreased from the cluster center to the edge of the oak canopy. However, there were no detectable differences in understory height or width (i.e., extent of understory development away from the trunk) among the four cardinal directions (N, E, S, W) within the oak cluster. Comparisons between oak clusters with and without a woody understory showed that the presence of the woody understory strongly affected light penetration to the soil surface but influenced air and soil temperature to a lesser extent. These findings suggest that, although live oak-induced modifications in microclimate can influence understory (i.e., juniper) growth and development, there is little indication that microclimate effects are an important component of facilitation by live oak nurse trees in mature woody clusters in this savanna ecosystem. /// rboles del roble (Quercus fusiformis) nativos de las altas sabanas la meseta de Edwards en Texas central, USA, podrn funcionar como plantas guardianas para Ashe juniper (Juniperus asheri) y otros arbustos. Para investigar la funcin guardiana de robles se caracterizaron las condiciones de luz y tempertura en arboledas de roble con respecto a las posiciones del azimut y canopi y se relacionaron con los patrones de desarollo y estructura de arbustos bajo las copas de los rboles. El microclima en rboles de roble era diferente que en las sabanas de alrededor y la disiminucin de luz y temperatura (aire y suelo) vari significativamente en direccin cardinal y ubicacin de las copas de las arboledas de roble, en Agosto, Setiembre, y Octubre. La ubicacin de las copas de los rboles influy significativamente en la altura de los arbustos, que en general disminuy desde el centro hacia los extremos de las copas de los robles. Sin embargo, no hubo diferencias en tamao (altura y ancho) de los arbustos (desarrollo alejado del tronco principal) por las cuatro direcciones cardinales (N, E, S, O) dentro de la arboleda. Comparaciones entre arboledas con y sin arbustos bajo los rboles indic que las presencia de arbustos fue influenciada fuertemente por la penetracin de luz al suelo, pero no tanto por la tempertura del aire y suelo. Estos resultados sugieren que, si bien las modificaciones del microclima por las arboleas de roble influyen en el desarollo de arbustos (i.e., juniper) bajo las copas de los rboles, hay poca indicacin que los efectos microclimticos son un factor importante en la facilitacin por rboles guardianes de roble en arboleas maduras en ese ecosistema sabanero.
30055356|Acacia berlandieri and Acacia rigidula are two woody legumes, widely distributed over large areas of shrubland in southern Texas, southwestern Texas and northern Mexico. The canopy of A. rigidula acts as a focus for recruitment of other woody and succulent species. The number of woody and succulent species found beneath A. rigidula canopies was greater than the number found in the open areas not associated with these shrubs (24 vs. 20, respectively). There was no difference for A. berlandieri compared to open areas (17 vs. 20, respectively). Eleven woody and succulent species were only found beneath shrub canopies, nine species were found under the canopies of both species and in open areas and five species were only in open areas. The number of species below the Acacia canopies was related to the size of the canopy. Multiple linear regression indicated that shrub canopy diameter and soil depth under the canopy (for A. berlandieri) and canopy diameter and soil depth in open areas (for A. rigidula) explained 71 to 74% of the variation in the number of woody and succulent species found below the canopy of these shrubs; for each model, canopy diameter was the more important factor. Total soil nitrogen under the two Acacia species was 5 to 13 times greater than that found in the open areas. Of the eight remaining soil characteristics measured, only pH for A. berlandieri and calcium and sulfur for A. rigidula were significantly different under the canopy compared to the open areas. /// Acacia berlandieri y Acacia rigidula son dos leguminosas leosas ampliamente distribuidas a lo largo de grandes zonas de arbustos en el sur y suroeste de Texas y norte de Mxico. El canopi de A. rigidula actua como centro de reclutamiento de otras especies leosas y sucuolentas. El nmero de especies suculentas y leosas encontradas bajo las cpulas de A. rigidula fue major que el encontrado en reas abiertas no asocidas con estos arbustos (24 vs. 20 respectivamente). Para A. berlandieri no hubo diferencia comparada con reas abiertas (17 vs. 20 respectivamente). Once especies leosas y suculentas fueron nicamente encontradas bajo las cpulas de los arbustos, nueve especies fueron encontadas bajo las cpulas de estas dos especies y reas abiertas y cinco fueron encontradas nicamente en reas abiertas. El nmero de especies bajo las cpulas de Acacia est relcionada con el tamao de las mismas. La regresin multiple linear indic que el dimetro de los canopis de los arbustos y la profundidad del suelo bajo stos (para A. berlandien), y el dimetro de el canopi y produndidad del suelo en reas abiertas (para A. rigidula) explica el 71 a 74 porciento de variacin en el nmero de especies leosas y suculentas encontradas bajo las cpulas de estos arbustos. Para cada modelo el dimetro del canopi fue el factor mas importante. El total de nitrgeno en el suelo bajo las dos especies de Acacia fue de 5 a 13 veces mayor que el encontrado en reas abiertas. De las ocho caractersticas restantes del suelo evaluadas, slo el pH para A. berlandieri y el calcio y azufre para A. rigidula fueron significativamente diferentes bajo los canopis comparados en reas abiertas.
30055357|We classified forest communities of the Fraser Experimental Forest, Colorado, using habitat typing techniques. We differentiate and briefly describe six aspen forests, four dry coniferous forests, three wet coniferous forests, four mesic coniferous forests, and an alder woodland distributed along gradients of soil moisture and elevation. The most widespread forest community is Abies lasiocarpa/Vaccinium scoparium. Major environmental relationships of these communities are graphed and briefly discussed. Fraser forests are most similar to local forests at comparable elevations, but many Fraser communities are also found elsewhere in the western United States, particularly to the north along the Rocky Mountain Cordillera and west to the Utah Basin and Range. /// Se clasificaron comunidades boscosas del Bosque Experimental Fraser, Colorado, usando tcnicas de tipificacin de hbitat. Diferenciamos y describimos brevemente seis bosques de Aspen, cuatro bosques secos de conferas, tres bosques hmedos de conferas, cuatro bosques mesicos de coniferas y un arboleda de Alder distribuidos a lo largo de gradientes de humedad del suelo y altitud. La comunidad boscosa mas comn es Abies lasiocarpa/Vaccinium scoparium. Las relaciones ambientales ms importantes de stas comunidades son graficadas y brevemente discutidas. Los bosque de Fraser son ms semejantes a otros bosques locales con elevaciones comparables, aunque muchas comunidades de Fraser son tambin encontradas en otras partes del oeste de los Estados Unidos, particularmente al norte a lo largo de las rocallosas y al oeste de la cuenca de Utah.
30055358|We estimated and compared breeding population sizes and productivity for duck species using high-elevation (2,069 to 2,871 m) wetlands on portions of the San Francisco Plateau (SFP) and the White Mountains (WM) of Arizona, 1991-1993. Densities of breeding pairs increased annually from 0.60 to 1.08 pairs/km (0.83 to 1.50 pairs/10 ha of wetland) on the SFP site, and from 0.94 to 1.96 pairs/km (3.12 to 6.51 pairs/10 ha of wetland) on the WM site. Productivity varied among species, between sites, and among years, but breeding populations and brood:pair ratios of all common species except northern pintails (Anas acuta) were greater on the WM site than on the SFP site each year. Mean number of ducklings in age class IIb broods did not differ between sites or among years for each species. Consequently, estimates of total production of fledged young and recruitment rates were greater on the WM site for all species except northern pintails. Despite the small breeding populations these areas support, production on these and other isolated wetland landscapes throughout the intermountain west may collectively contribute substantially to regional and continental populations of some duck species, particularly on areas where productivity is relatively high. /// Nosotros calculamos y comparamos la poblacin que engendra las especies de patos que usan tierra pantanosa en alta elevacin sobre porciones del Altiplano de San Francisco (SFP) y las Sierra Blancas (WM) de Arizona. Las densidades de engendro de parejas anualmente aumentan de 0.60 a 1.08 pares/km (0.83 a 1.50 pares/10 ha of tierra pantanosa) sobre el sitio de SFP y de 0.94 a 1.96 pares/km (3.12 a 6.51 pares/10 ha de tierra pantanosa) en el sitio de WM. La productividad entre las especies vara dependiendo de los sitios y los aos, pero la poblacin reproductiva y los ndices cra: pareja de todas las especies comunes excepto los pato golondrino fueron ms grandes en el sitio de WM que en el sitio de SFP cada ano. Por cada especie el nmero promedio de cra de patitos en la clase de edad IIb nose differencia entre los sitios ni los aos. Por lo tanto, el clculo total de produccin de crias y la proporcin reclutada fueron mayores en el sitio WM para todas las especies excepto los pato golondrino. A pesar de la pequea poblacin de crianza stas reas sostienen la produccin en estas y otras cinaqas aisladas de tierras pantanosas a lo largo del oeste entremontanal y puede que colectivamente aporte substancialmente hacia la poblaciones de algunas de las especies de patos regionales y continentales, particularmente en las reas donde la produccin es relativamente alta.
30055359|Site fidelity of birds based on banding was demonstrated for about 25% of mistnetted resident species in two disturbed and one undisturbed forest sites. Site fidelity was slightly higher in both young (10 species of birds) and mature forest (7) than in a recently abandoned field (5). One hundred and twenty-six resident species were observed of which 73 were mist-netted. Seventy species were observed in mature forest of which 25 were exclusive (not found in the other two sites). Eleven of 74 species in young forest were exclusive, and 20 of 80 in the recently abandoned field. Five species: ochre-bellied flycatcher, long-tailed hermit, wedge-billed woodcreeper, white-collared manakin, and red-capped manakin accounted for about 50% of all resident birds netted. Recovery data for migrant and resident site faithful species suggest that migrant and resident species exhibit roughly the same degree of site fidelity relative to overall species richness. /// La fidelidad a un sito de los pjaros basados en bandas de marcaje fue demonstrada por cerca del 25% de las especies redidentes capturadas con redes en dos sitios boscosls disturbados y uno indisturbado. La fidelidad a un sitio fue ligeramente mayor en losques jvenes (10 especies de pjaros) y maduros (7) que en campos recientemente abandonados (5). Ciento veintiseis especies residentes fueron observadas y de las cuales 25 fueron exclusivas (no encontradas en los otros dos sitios). Once de los 74 especies en bosques jvenes fueron exclusivas y viente de 80 en campos recientemente abandandos. Cinco especies, el ochre-bellie flycatcher, "long-tailed hermit," "wedge-billed woodcreeper," "white collared manakin" y el "redcapped manakin" cuentan por cerca del 50% de todas los pjaros residentes atrapados. Los datos recobrados por especies migraterias y resedentes fieles a un sition sugiere que las especies migitorias y resedentes exhiben aproximadamente el mismo grado de fidelidad relativa a la riqueza general de especies.
30055360|We conducted point counts at a Sonoran Desert site from 1994 thru 1996 to examine the abundance and habitat associations of Common Poorwills (Phalaenoptilus nuttallii). The abundance of poorwills did not significantly differ among years. At a macrohabitat scale, poorwill abundance was positively associated with cover of washes and uplands, while at a microhabitat scale, abundance was positively associated with cover of rocky substrate and mid-canopy (1.0 m-2.5 m) perennial vegetation, and was negatively associated with cover of understory (0.05 m to 1.0 m) grass. Common poorwills most often used areas characterized by an interspersion of physiographic types. Our findings are consistent with many qualitative observations from the natural history literature. /// Condujimos conteo de puntos en un sitio del desierto de Sonora de 1994 a 1996 para examinar la abundancia y asociaciones de hbitat de Phalaenoptilus nuttallii. La abundancia de P nuttallii no difiri significativamente entre esos aos. A escala de microhbitat, la abundancia fue postivamente asociada con cobertura rocosa del sustrato y vegetacin perenne del canopi central (1.0 m a 2.5 m), y fue negativamente asociado con la covertura baja del suelo (0.05 m a 1.0 m). Phalaenoptilus nuttallii utiliz con mayor frecuencia areas caracterizadas por una distribucin de tipo fisiografico. Nuestros descubrimientos son consistentes con muchas observaciones cualitativas encontradas en la literatura de historia natural.
30055361|We compared topographic and forest stand habitat measurements between successful and unsuccessful Merriam's turkey (Meleagris gallopavo merriami) nest sites to determine which features influenced nest success. Sixty-seven nests in north-central Arizona were located between May 1987 and July 1991. Based on univariate analyses, successful turkey nest sites had greater conifer densities and larger diameter ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) trees than did unsuccessful nest sites. Using our best multivariate logistic regression model, we found that successful nest sites were associated with larger diameter ponderosa pine trees, greater conifer density, time periods >20 years since silvicultural treatment, and less deciduous vegetation. Our alternate logistic model replaced less deciduous vegetation with less steep slope. Our analysis suggests that a combination of factors influence turkey nest site success. Our habitat model may be used to evaluate the quality and direct management of habitats used for nesting by turkeys in southwestern montane coniferous forests. /// Comparamos la topografa y medidas de habitat en vegetacin en pie entre los sitios de anidacin logrados y no logrados por el Guajolote Silvestre (Merriam) (Meleagris gallopavo merriami), para determinar cuales efectos influyern en el logro del sitio de anidacin. Localizamos sesenta y siete nidos al norte centro de Arizona entre Mayo 1987 y Julio 1991. Basado en un anlisis univariado los sitios de anidacin logrados tuvieron mayor densidad de rboles conferos como el Pino Ponderosa (Pinus ponderosa), el cual tuvo el mayor dimetro comparado con los sitios de anidacin no logrados. Usando el mejor modelo de regresin logistica multivariado, descubrimos que los sitios de anidacin logrados estaban asociados con rboles de mayor dimetro, como el Pino Ponderosa, mayor densidad confera, perodos de tiempo >20 aos desde qu huvo un tratamiento silvicultural, y menos vegetacin decidua. El modelo logistico alternativose remeplazo menos vegetacin decidua con menos precipicin de altura. Nuestros anlisis sugirieron que fue una combinacin de factores los que influieron en el logro del sitio de anidacin del Guajolote Silvestre (Merriam). El modelo de habitat que usamos puede ser usado para evaluar la cualidad y el manejo directo de habitats, en el uso de sitios de anidacin del Guajolote Silvestre en la regin forestal confera montaosa Sureste.
30055362|New distribution records are given for 27 species of Sphecidae, 10 species of Pompilidae and 4 species of Mutillidae. Most of these new records come from Texas. Of these 41 wasp species, 30 represent first state records for Texas, New Mexico, Colorado, and Kansas. /// Se dan constancias nuevas de distribucin para 27 especies de Sphecidae, 10 especies de Pompilidae, y 4 especies de Mutillidae. La mayor parte de estas constancias nuevas provienen de Texas. De estas 41 especies de avispa, 30 representan el primer registro del estado para Texas, New Mexico, Colorado, y Kansas.
30055363|Records of the Mexican freshwater copepod fauna were reviewed to build an updated list of these microcrustaceans. Data on all 78 species included are presented for each Mexican state. Seven species are reported in Mexico for the first time, and several first state records are presented. States with the highest number of species recorded are Yucatn, Michoacn, Aguascalientes, San Luis Potos, and the Distrito Federal area. For several states there are no records of freshwater copepods. The calanoid Mastigodiaptomus albuquerquensis and the cyclopoid Eucyclops agilis are the most widely distributed freshwater copepods in Mexico. Although relatively few data are available, the existing information allowed some biogeographic interpretations regarding calanoid and cyclopoid species groups with affinites to neotropical, nearctic and transitional zones. /// Se revisaron los registros de la fauna de coppodos de aguas continentales de Mxico para construir una lista actualizada de estos microcrustceos. Se presentan los datos de las 78 especies includas y su ocurrencia en cada estado de Mxico. Siete especies son registradas por primera vez en el pas y se presentan varios registros nuevos a nivel estatal. Los estados con el mayor nmero de especies registradas son Yucatn, Michoacn, Aguascalientes, San Luis Potos, y el rea del Distrito Federal. No existen registros de coppodos de aguas continentales en varios estados de Mxico. El coppodo calanoide Mastigodiaptomus albuquerquensis y el cyclopoide Eucyclops agilis son los coppodos de aguas dulces ms ampliamente distribuidos en Mxico. No obstante que los datos disponibles son relativamente escasos, la informacin existente permiti algunas interpretaciones de tipo biogeogrfico respecto a grupos de especies de calanoides y cyclopoides considerando a su afinidad neotropical, nertica o transicional.
30055364|Capturamus murcilagos (Euderma maculatum) en paredas subalpinas (2,400 a 2,600 m de elevacin) durante los veranos de 1995-1996 en el sector norte del Distrtito Kaibab en el norte de Arizona, EEUU. Empleamos radios transmisores para localizar sitios de forrajeo y sitios de descanso diurno. Durante ocho semanas, a lo largo de ambos veranos, capturamus un total de 16 murcilagos moteados en 45 noches utilizando redes, y a 12 murcilagos (11 hembras y 1 macho) les fijamos transmisores. Muchos murcilagos moteados parecen forrajear en estas praderas. En Julio de 1996, seguimos la Seal de una hembra lactante hasta un sitio de descanso remoto en el parque Nacional del Gran Caon a 38.5 km del sitio de captura. El sitio de descanso se localizaba en la parte surde un risco, directamente arriba del Ro Colorado (700 m de elevacin). Sospechamos que otros murcilagos moteados en esta rea, tienen compartamiento similar de forrajeo y sitio de descanso (77 km ida y vuelta) para este murcilago es bastante diferente del comportamiento previamente reportado para esta especie.
30055365|Se muestrearon las especies de roedores asociadas con monticulos de la rata canguro Dipodomys spectabilis en pastos desirticos dominados por el pastizal Bouteloua (grama). Se usaron dos tipos de trampas de captura viva, Sherman y malla abierta, durante octubre de 1994 y 1995. Diferieron los numeros capturados de cuatro especies de roedor (D. spectabilis, D. ordii, Perognathus flavus, y Onychomys arenicola) y la reaccon alas trampas de D. spectabilis, entre los dos aos del estudio. Se capturaron menos animales en 1995 y D. spectabilis preferieron las mallas abiertas en eseao. La causa evidente de estas diferencias fue la condicin vegetativa del habitat. Octubre de 1994 estaba seco y la tierra estaba relativamente rida con poco vegetacin verde y pocas semillas. Octubre de 1995 hubo condiciones hmedas y el suelo estaba cubierta de abundante vegetacin y semillas.
30055366|La perdida del habitat es la principal amenaza sobre la persistencia del ocelote (Leopardus pardalis) en la provincia biotica Tamaulipeca, ademas de que dicho felino es considerado en peligro de extincion. Los habitats de arbustivas, utilizados por el ocelote, fueron determinadas en el Sur de Texas y Noreste de Mexico. Dentro de dichos habitats, se indetificaron las especies arbustivas que se podian utilizar en futuras restauraciones de habitats del ocelote. Para lo cual, muestreamos 3 sitio mediante transectos lineales y comparamos la composicion y cobertura en todos los sitios no fueron similares (dando un valor de indice de similaridad de <49.0%). sin embargo, la base de seleccion de 8 especies de arbustivas dominantes afines o comunes a los sitios de Texas y el Noreste de Mexico, podria ser una justificante para futuros esfuerzos de restauraction.
30055367|Se describen casos de ayudantes en la nidificacon en Baeolophus wollweberi basndose en cuatro tros confirmados en Durango, Mxico y en observaciones ms irregulares en seis nidos en Arizona. Aunque los pjaros no estaban marcados con anillos de colores siempre participaron simultneamente tres adultos casos el ayudante probablemente era macho, ambos estuvieron presentes desde antes de lapuesta de los huevos y nunca intentaron copular. Todos los ayudantes fueron muy activos en alimentar polluelos y volantones, sacar bolsas fecales del nido y molestar depredadores potenciales. En un caso, el ayudante macho particpen la defensa del territorio. Aparentemente los ayudantes son subordinados de ambos mienbros de la pareja y raramente fueron acosados. En Arizona, en 6 de 10 nidos se confirmaron tros durante la incubacin de huevos y polluelos pero no se realizaron observaciones de los ayundente en B. wollweberi an se desconoce. La poliandria sera poco probable debido a la tendencia general de los pridos a la monogamia. La ayuda ocasional de cras de nidadas previas podra ser el caso en B. wollweberi, como ocurre en B. bicolor. En Durango, en dos casos se pudo determinar que los ayudantes eran machos; sin embargo, la los ayundantes y su papel en la nidifitin slo podrn ser determinados con estudios de pjaros marcados y anlisis genticos.
30055368|Se reporta por primera vez la introduccin del caracol tornillo, Melanoides tuberculata, para el Valle de Cuatro Cinegas, en dos manantiales: Poza La Beccerra y Poza Churince, Coahuila, Mxico, as como tambin se presenta la distribucin en 12 localidades para el Estado de Coahuila. Esta especie es una amenaza para la fauna acutica, especialmente para la diversidad de gastropodos endmicos que habitan en el valle. Las poblaciones de especies natives se ven disminudas, e incluso erradicadas; en Coahuila se ve un fuerte impacto desde El Cario de la Montaa hasta la Estacin Hermanas, donde prcticamente lo nicoque vive es el Melanoides.
30055372|I conducted staged laboratory encounters between resident and intruder males to study intraspecific male aggression in the solifuges, Arenotherus joshuaensis and Eremobates marathoni. Aggressive behavior consists of several behavioral components (stages) including threat, attack, and flight. Resident males of A. joshuaensis spent significantly longer periods of time in threat and attack stages than E. marathoni. Threat behavior of males of both species was characterized by an alert stance (legs in an elevated position) and opening of the chelicerae, followed by a forward and backward rocking motion of the body, and an extension of pedipalps and first pair of legs. Males of A. joshuaensis extended their pedipalps to a greater degree than E. marathoni males, and the rocking motion of their bodies was more exaggerated. No males of either species exhibited stridulation or sand-digging during aggressive encounters. Fifty-three percent of encounters between A. joshuaensis males resulted in the resident male attacking and killing the intruder. In contrast, only 30% of encounters resulted in death of E. marathoni intruders. Death of the intruder was most frequently (76%) the result of a single bite to the head. Seventy-five percent of resident males of A. joshuaensis fed on the body of their rival; only 22% of E. marathoni resident males did so. Interspecific differences in aggressive behavior may be due to differences in habitats occupied by these two species. /// Conduje encuentros de laboratorio entre machos residentes e intrusos para investigar la agresin intraespecifica en los solfugos Arenotherus joshuaensis y Eremobates marathoni. La conducta agresiva consiste de varios componentes (etapas) que incluye amenaza, ataque, y escape. Los machos residentes de A. joshuaensis pasan bastante ms tiempo en las etapas de amenaza y ataque que los de E. marathoni. La etapa de amenaza de las dos especies fue caracterizada por una postura vigilante (las patas levantadas) con los quelceros abiertos, seguida por un movimiento mecedor del cuerpo hacia adelante y hacia atrs, y una extensin de los pedipalpos y el primer par de patas. Los machos de A. joshuaensis extendieron sus pedipalpos ms lejos que los machos de E. marathoni y el movimiento mecedor fue ms exagerado. Ninguno de los machos de ambas especies emiti sonidos ni excav en la arena durante los encuentros agresivos. Cincuenta y tres por ciento de los encuentros entre los machos de A. joshuaensis resultaron en el ataque del residente hasta la muerte del intruso. En contraste, slo 30% de los encuentros resultaron en la muerte de los intrusos de E. marathoni. La muerte del intruso fue comunmente (76%) el resultado de una sola mordida a la cabeza. Setenta y cinco por ciento de los machos residentes de A. joshuaensis comieron del cuerpo de su rival; s1o 22% de los de E. marathoni hicieron lo mismo. Las diferencias de la conducta agresiva pueden ser el resultado de diferencias de los habitat ocupados por las dos especies.
30055373|Selective ingestion is an important component of handling time in the solifuge, Eremobates marathoni Muma (Arachnida). Prey body parts of the grasshopper Acrolophitus variegatus that are characterized by a relatively high chitin content (head capsule, antennae, wings, legs) were removed prior to ingestion of more desirable body parts. Head capsules were removed in 73-89% of feeding trials, depending on prey size, followed by the forewings (52%) and hindwings (41%). Prey body parts containing lower amounts of chitin (abdomen, thorax, hind femur) were rapidly macerated and ingested. These solifuges ingested body parts from each of two prey size classes at similar frequencies. The role of selective ingestion in maximizing the overall energy budget of E. marathoni is discussed. /// La ingestin selectiva es un componente importante del tiempo de manejo en el solfugo Eremobates marathoni Muma (Arachnida). Algunas partes del cuerpo de saltamontes, Acrolophitus variegatus, estn caracterizadas por un contenido relativamente alto de quitina (cpsula de la cabeza, antenas, alas, patas) y se quitan antes de la ingestin de las partes ms deseables. En 73-89% de las pruebas de alimentacin, se quitaron primero las cpsulas de cabeza, segn el tamao de la presa, luego las alas delanteras (52%) y las alas traseras (41%). Se mastican y se ingieren rpidament las partes de la presa que contienen menos quitina (abdomen, trax, fmur trasero). Estos solfugos ingirieron partes del cuerpo de cada uno de dos taafios de presa con frecuencias parecidas. Se discute la importancia de la ingestin selectiva para maximizar la adquisicin total de energa en E. marathoni.
30055374|This study examined the potential of animals as vectors for mesquite seedling establishment via fecal deposition. Cattle, deer, and coyote fecal material containing emerging mesquite was located in May 1994 on a clay loam site in north Texas and assigned to two grass competition treatments (clipped to 3-cm height, or unclipped) and three moisture treatments (rainfall, rainfall + four 1.25-cm irrigations, or rainfall + one 10-cm irrigation). Except for a 2-week period in August 1993 when feces were deposited, cattle grazing was excluded from the site during the study and for several years prior to study initiation. Seedling emergence and survival were quantified throughout 1994, a dry year, and 1995, which had precipitation well above normal. By spring 1995, survival of 1994 seedlings (all treatments pooled) was 16.6, 9.3, and 1.3% at deer, cattle, and coyote fecal sites, respectively. Survival of 1994 seedlings was not affected by moisture or clipping treatments. New cohorts of emerging seedlings occurred from the same fecal sites during 1995. High rainfall during summer 1995 increased percent survival of 1995 seedlings when compared to survival of 1994 seedlings, even though grass growth was much greater in 1995 than in 1994. A strong trend emerged in which survival of 1995 seedlings appeared to be greater when surrounding perennial grasses were clipped (37.0% in clipped plots vs. 9.4% in unclipped plots), but this was not statistically significant (P  0.14). By spring 1996, average number of seedlings emerged per site (1994 and 1995 cohorts combined) was 7.8, 5.2, and 4.5; number of established seedlings per site was 0.8, 0.6, and 0.3; and percent survival was 12.1, 13.5, and 6.5% at cattle, deer, and coyote sites, respectively. Mesquite seedlings were capable of establishing from feces of all three animal vectors within dense, ungrazed stands of perennial grass. /// Este estudio examin el potencial de animales como vectores para el establecimiento de plntulas de mesquite via deposicin fecal. Materia fecal de ganado, venado, y coyote conteniendo brotes de mesquite fue hallado en mayo de 1994 en un sitio de marga de barro en el norte de Texas y asignado a dos tratamientos de pasto (cortado a 3 cm de altura, o sin cortar) y a tres tratamientos de humedad (lluvia, Iluvia + 1.25-cm de riego cuatro veces, o lluvia + 10-cm de riego una vez). Con exclusin de un periodo de dos semanas en agosto de 1993 cuando excrementos fueron depositados, pastar de ganado fue excluido del sitio durante el estudio y por varios afios antes del inicio del estudio. El brote de las plntulas y la sobrevivencia fueron medidos durante 1994, un ao seco, y 1995, que tuvo lluvia mucho mis de lo normal. Para la primavera de 1995, la sobrevivencia de las plintulas de 1994 (todos los tratamientos juntos) fue de 16.6, 9.3, y 1.3% en sitios fecales de venado, ganado, y coyote, respectivamente. La sobrevivencia de plntulas de 1994 no fue afectada por tratameintos de humedad o corte. Grupos nuevos de brotes de plintulas emergieron de los mismos sitios fecales durante 1995. Mucha lluvia en el verano de 1995 aument el porcentaje de sobrevivencia de plntulas de 1995 comparada con la sobrevivencia de plintulas de 1994, aunque el crecimiento del pasto fue mucho mis en 1995 que en 1994. Una fuerte tendencia apareci en que la sobrevivencia de las plntulas de 1995 fue aparentemente mejor cuando pastos perenes alrededor fueron cortados (37.0% en sitios cortados vs. 9.4 en sitios sin cortar), pero esto no fue estadisticamente significativo (P  0.14). Para la primavera de 1996, el nmero promedio de brotes de plntulas por sitio (los grupos de 1994 y 1995 combinados) fue 7.8, 5.2, y 4.5; el nfimero de plntulas establecidas por sitio fue 0.8, 0.6, y 0.3; y el porcentaje de sobrevivencia fue 12.1, 13.5, y 6.5% en sitios de venado, ganado y coyote, respectivamente. Las plntulas de mesquite fueron capaces de establecerse de excrementos de los tres animales vectores en sitios de pasto denso perene sin pastar de ganado.
30055375|Helianthus paradoxus (the puzzle sunflower, Compositae) is a rare species, only found along Leon Creek in the Diamond Y Springs Preserve, in closely associated areas near Fort Stockton, Texas (3110'N, 10245'W), and in several locations in central and eastern New Mexico. In the Diamond Y Springs Preserve, it is found in specific habitats and exhibits high spatial fluctuations in density and cover. It does not occur in Larrea tridentata (creosote bush) communities on shallow upland soils or in Prosopis glandulosa (honey mesquite) communities on deep upland soils. As one descends slightly in elevation from dry P glandulosa upland communities into the salt marsh, a Sporobolus airoides (alkali sacaton) grassland is encountered. The next major community is a Distichlis spicata (saltgrass) grassland. Helianthus paradoxus usually is found with various cover values ranging from 0 to 70% or at densities from 0 to 23 plants/0.1 m, associated with D. spicata. Helianthus paradoxus usually is not found in the deepest, saturated soils in the lowest part of the salt marsh associated with the drainage where Scirpus olneyi (bulrush) typically is the dominant species. /// Helianthus paradoxus (girasol de perplejidad, Compositae) es una especie rara que se encuentra solamente a lo largo del riachuelo Leon Creek en la reserva Diamond Y Springs Preserve, en reas cmuy asociadas, prximas a Fort Stockton, Texas (3110'N, 10245'O0), y en varias localidades del centro y del este de Nuevo Mxico. En la reserva Diamond Y Springs Preserve se encuentra en habitat especificos que exhiben amplias fluctuaciones espaciales en densidad y cubierta. Esta especie no se encuentra en comunidades Larrea tridentata (mata de creosota) de tierras altas y de poca profundidad ni en comunidades Prosopis glandulosa (mesquite de miel) de tierras altas y profundas. Al bajar un poco en elevacin, donde existen las altas y secas comunidades P glandulosa, uno llega a un pantano salado, donde se encuentra el pastizal de Sporobolus airoides (sacate alkali). La siguiente comunidad mayor, es pastizal de Distichlis spicata (pasto salado). Usualmente, se encuentra H. paradoxus con diferentes valores de cubiertas desde 0 hasta 70% o de densidades del 0 al 23 plantas/0.1 m, asociada con D. spicata. Por el contrario H. paradoxus no se encuentra en las tierras mas profundas y saturadas en las partes bajas del pantano salado asociadas con el drenaje donde se encuentra Scirpus olneyi (junco), la especie tipicamente dominante.
30055376|Allozymic analysis of 16 loci was utilized to determine the genetic diversity of four species of mussels in the Tribe Amblemini (Amblema plicata plicata (Say), Plectomerus dombeyanus (Valenciennes), Quadrula pustulosa (I. Lea), and Q. quadrula (Rafinesque)) in the Cache and White rivers of Arkansas. Mussel populations of both rivers have been subjected to frequent harvest, and White River populations have been exposed to periodic habitat destruction due to dredging. Ranges of polymorphism were from 0.572 for A. plicata to 0.360 for Q. quadrula; heterozygosity values ranged from 0.049 for P dombeyanus to 0.144 for Q. pustulosa. With the exception of low heterozygosity for Q. quadrula, heterozygosity and polymorphism values were similar to previous studies involving Amblemini of other river drainages. Populations were characterized by heterozygote deficiencies at all loci. Several determinants of heterozygote deficiency were investigated, with selection and inbreeding posed as viable hypotheses. Bottlenecking may be occurring in Q. quadrula. Although no evidence of genetic decline associated with bottlenecking was identified for the other three Amblemini, mussel beds are on the decline in Arkansas, and loss of genetic diversity is detrimental to the temporal stability of populations. /// Un anlisis alozimtico de 16 loci se us para determinar la diversidad gentica de cuatro especies de mejillones de la Tribu Amblemini (Amblema plicata plicata (Say), Plectomerus dombeyanus (Valenciennes), Quadrula pustulosa (I. Lea), y Q. quadrula (Rafinesque)) en los rios Cache y White de Arkansas. Las poblaciones de mejillones de los dos ros se han cosechado con determinada frecuencia, y las poblaciones del White River han sdo expuestas a una peridica destruccin del hbitat a causa del dragar del ro. Los lmites del polimorfismo fueron de 0.572 para A. plicata a 0.360 para Q. quadrula; los valores de la heterozigosidad se registraron de 0.049 para P dombeyanus hasta 0.144 para Q. pustulosa. Con la excepcin de la baja heterozigosidad de Q. quadrula, los valores de heterozigosidad y polimorfismo fueron similares a los estudios anteriores sobre Amblemini de cuencas fluviales de otros ros. Las poblacionesse caracterizaron por una deficiencia de los heterozigotos en todos los loci. Se investigaron varios determinantes de la deficiencia de los heterozigotos, con la seleccion y cruzamiente consangunec sealados como hiptesis viables. Es posible que el embotellamiento sea el problema con Q quadrula. Aunque no se identific ninguna evidencia de una disminucin gentica asociada con dicho embotellamiento en las otras tres Amblemini, en Arkansas se est disminuyendo la cantidad de lechos de los mejillones, y la prdida de diversidad gentica es perjudicial para la estabilidad temporal de las poblaciones.
30055377|A new species of army ant is described from the Kleberg Airport of Kleberg Co., southern Texas, USA. This species is based on 25 workers collected from a subterranean bait trap. The male and female are unknown. This species differs from most others in the genus in that the mandible has three large teeth which are subequal in size and shape. Smaller teeth or denticles are present on the mandibles of some of the workers of the series. It is most similar morphologically to N. moseri and distinguishing characteristics are given to separate the two species. /// Se describe una nueva especie de hormiga legionaria del aeropuerto del condado de Kleberg, del sur de Texas, EUA. Esta descripcin est basada en 25 obreras colectadas en una trampa carnada subterrnea. La hembra y el macho son afin desconocidos. Esta especie se diferencia de la mayora de las especies del gnero en que la mandibula tiene tres dientes grandes casi iguales en forma y tamao. Hay dientecillos presentes en las mandibulas de algunas obreras de la serie. Es semejante morfologicamente a N. moseri y se presentan caracteristicas para distinguir las dos especies.
30055378|We tested for long-term changes in fish assemblages using collections made from 1972 to 1992 in the Kiamichi River, Oklahoma. Reservoirs were constructed in the Kiamichi River basin in 1974 (mainstem) and 1983 (tributary). A significant difference was found for local species richness but not Shannon-Wiener diversity nor evenness in comparisons from before and after reservoir construction. There was an effect of collection date on the relationship between species richness and upstream distance from the mainstem reservoir; species richness was highest prior to reservoir construction. Sites further from the tributary reservoir outflow were more similar in species composition over time than sites closer to the outflow. Comparisons of site scores for principal components revealed that Fundulus olivaceus, Notropis atherinoides, and Labidesthes sicculus decreased in abundance following reservoir construction. Although the Kiamichi River retains its overall species richness, our results indicate that reservoir construction has influenced fish assemblage structure. /// Experimentamos cambios a largo plazo en bancos de peces usando colecciones hechas entre 1972 a 1992 en el ro Kiamichi, Oklahoma. Se construyeron embalses en la cuenca del ro Kiamichi en 1974 (ro principal) y en 1983 (en un afluente). Se encontr una diferencia significativa en la riqueza local de especies pero no en la diversidad Shannon-Wiener, ni en la igualdad de proporciones de especies en pruebas provenientas de la poca antes y despus de la construccin de los embalses. Hubo un efecto de la fecha de coleccin en la relacin entre la riqueza de especies y la distancia ro arriba del embalse principal; la riqueza de especies fue ms alta antes de la construccin de embalse. La composicin de especies en sitios lejos de la boca de embalse del afluente fue ms estable a travs del tiempo que en aquellos sitios cerca de la boca. Comparaciones entre indices por sitio de los componentes principales mostraron que Fundulus olivaceus, Notropis antherinoides, y Labidesthes sicculus fueron menos abundantes despus de la construccin de los embalses. Aunque el ro Kiamichi mantiene su riqueza de especies, nuestros resultados indican que la construccin de los embalses ha in fluido la estructura poblacional de los peces.
30055379|We placed cage litter from black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) down the burrows of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) each week from 10 March to 21 May 1996 on the Cathy Fromme Prairie near Fort Collins, Colorado to determine its effect on prairie dog behavior and reproduction. Ferret odors did not affect the number of prairie dogs remaining, number of burrows open and closed, percentage of burrows closed, and reproduction by prairie dogs on treatment compared to control plots. However, proportion of adult prairie dogs that appeared above ground 0.5 to 4.0 h after (compared to number that appeared immediately before) odors were applied was smaller on treatment compared to control plots (
30055380|We investigated the location of 48 burrow systems of the golden-mantled ground squirrel (Spermophilus lateralis, 175 to 225 g) and 34 burrow systems of the least chipmunk (Tamias minimus, 30 to 60 g) in a sub-alpine region of the Colorado Rocky Mountains. Both S. lateralis and T. minimus placed burrow entrances under large rocks more frequently than would be predicted from distribution of these features in the habitat. Entrance diameters of Spermophilus lateralis burrows were significantly larger than those of T. minimus. Burrow entrances of S. lateralis most often faced southwest (56%), whereas entrances of T. minimus showed no significant directional tendency. Burrow systems of the two species did not differ with regard to slope of terrain; both were found on slopes ranging from 0 to 30. Burrow systems of S. lateralis were either simple or complex. Complex burrows were longer and had more entrances, caches, and chambers than simple burrows. Burrows of T. minimus were all simple. They were significantly shorter in length, shallower, had smaller cross-sectional diameters, fewer and smaller chambers, and fewer entrances than S. lateralis burrows. Burrow contents for both species consisted of woody material, grasses, seeds, and feces. Similarities in placement of burrows, especially use of large rocks, probably reflect the similar safety function of burrows of the two species. Differences in burrow structure and placement probably reflect species-specific body sizes, hibernation strategies, and basking behaviors. /// Investigamos la ubicacin de 48 sistemas de madriguera de la ardilla Spermophilus lateralis (175-225 g) y 34 sistemas de madriguera de la ardilla Tamias minimus (30-60 g) en una regin sub-alpina en las Montafias Rocallosas de Colorado. Ambas especies colocaron las entradas de sus madrigueras debajo de rocas grandes con mayor frecuencia de lo que se predicira por la distribucin de estas formaciones en el mbito natural. Los dimetros de las entradas de las madrigueras de S. lateralis fueron significativamente ms grandes que los de T. minimus. Las entradas de las madrigueras de S. lateralis estaban orientadas frecuentemente al suroeste (56%), mientras que las entradas de las madrigueras de T. minimus no se encontraron orientadas a ninguna direccin particular. No se encontraron diferencias en la inclinacin del terreno entre los dos sistemas de madriguera, ambos se localizaron en pendientes de 0 a 30. Las madrigueras de S. lateralis fueron sencillas o complejas. Las madrigueras complejas fueron mis largas y tuvieron mais entradas, almacenes, y cimaras que las madrigueras sencillas. Todas las madrigueras de T. minimus fueron sencillas. Tambin fueron de menor longitud, profundidad y dimetro, y presentaron cmaras ms pequefias y en menor cantidad, y menos entradas que las de S. lateralis. El contenido de las madrigueras de ambas especies consisti de pedazos de madera, pastos, semillas, y feces. Las afinidades de ubicacin de las madrigueras, sobre todo el uso de rocas muy grandes, probablemente refleja una funcin similar de seguridad que ambas especies requieren. Las diferencias en estructura y ubicacin probablemente reflejen diferencias entre las especies en el tamafio corporal, estrategias de hibernacin, y comportamientos al asolearse.
30055381|Elucidation of the complex interactions of life-history characteristics that affect genetic structure within and among populations is important in assessing implications for a species' conservation and evolutionary potential. Gene frequency data from 245 individuals from the four California populations of Cupressus forbesii, a serotinous, edaphically restricted, near-endemic conifer were used to investigate temporal and spatial patterns in population genetic structure. Mean values for the proportion of polymorphic loci (P), observed heterozygosity (
30055382|Mexican populations previously referred to as Tantilla taeniata are distinctive in pattern and are regarded as a distinct species, T triseriata. /// Las poblaciones en Mxico antes referidas como Tantilla taeniata se distinguen en patrn y son consideradas una especie distinta, T triseriata.
30055383|The pollination and breeding system of Coleogyne ramosissima (blackbrush), a Rosaceous shrub, was examined at three locations in southern Utah during 1993. At each location, four branch treatments were applied: open pollination, mesh bags to prevent insect visitation, controlled cross pollination, and self pollination. Exclusion of insect pollinators did not affect fruit set. Mean percentage of flowers setting fruit on mesh-covered branches (48.6%) was equal to or greater than that of either open-pollinated branches (37.6%) or cross-pollinated branches (29.2%). Mean percent fruit set on self-pollinated branches ranged from 0.8 to 6.3%, with an overall mean of 2.7%. These data demonstrate that blackbrush is wind-pollinated and largely selfincompatible. Populational differences in overall fruit set are likely related to previous flowering and fruiting expenditures. Probable evolution of blackbrush from insect to wind pollination is discussed. /// En tres lugares del sur de Utah se realiz durante 1993 un estudio de la polinizacin y del sistema de reproduccin del arbusto rosceo Coleogyne ramosissima (Blackbrush). En cada sitio, se aplicaron cuatro tratamientos a las ramas: polinizacin abierta; bolsas de malla para prevenir la visita de insectos; polinizacin cruzada controlada y autopolinizacin. La exclusin de insectos polinizadores no afect la cantidad de frutos madurados. El porcentaje medio de flores que madur a frutos en las ramas cubiertas de bolsas de malla (48.6%) fue igual o mayor al de las ramas expuestas a polinizacin abierta (37.6%), o al de las ramas con polinizacin cruzada (29.2%). El porcentaje medio de la cantidad de frutos madurados en las ramas con autopolinizacin tuvo una variacin desde el 0.8 a 6.3%, con un promedio general de 2.7%. Estos datos demuestran que este tipo de arbusto es polinizado por el viento y mayormente autoincompatible. Las diferencias entre las poblaciones en la cantidad de frutos madurados estin relacionadas probablemente con los gastos previos del florecimiento y fructificacin. Se discute la posible evolucin de Blackbrush desde la polinizacin por insectos hasta la polinizacin por el viento.
30055384|The reproductive cycle and cycles in fat body and liver masses are described for male and female Urosaurus bicarinatus studied near Chamela, Jalisco, Mxico. Males reached sexual maturity at 38.0 mm snout-vent length (SVL) at an age of 8 months; females reached sexual maturity at 40.0 mm SVL at an age of 9 months. Testes of adult males began to increase in size in early April, maximum testes mass occurred in June-August, and testes began to decrease in September, reaching minimum size in October. Maximum testicular growth was associated with increasing photoperiod, but not with temperature or precipitation. Enlarged vitellogenic follicles first appeared during mid-May in females. Females contained oviductal eggs from June to September. Vitellogenesis, follicular growth, and egg production were associated with increasing photoperiod and precipitation, but not temperature. Nine sampled females (15%) had evidence of two clutches, and 51 females (85%) had evidence of only one clutch; data on marked lizards revealed that some females may lay up to three clutches. Mean clutch size based on oviductal eggs was 5.4  1.1 SE (4 to 8). Clutch size and relative clutch mass (RCM) were positively correlated with female SVL. /// El ciclo reproductivo y los ciclos del peso de los cuerpos grasos y del hgado son descritos para las hembras y los machos de Urosaurus bicarinatus estudiados cerca de Chamela, Jalisco, Mxico. Los machos alcanzaron la madurez sexual a los 38.0 mm de longitud hocicocloaca (LHC) a una edad de 8 meses; las hembras alcanzaron la madurez sexual a los 40.0 mm LHC a una edad de 9 meses. Las gnadas de los machos adultos comenzaron a incrementar en tamao en los primeros das de abril, los testiculos alcanzaron su peso mximo durante junioagosto, y comenzaron a decrecer en septiembre, alcanzando su peso minimo en octubre. El mximo crecimiento testicular estuvo asociado con el incremento del fotoperodo, pero no con el de la temperatura o de la precipitacin. Los primeros folculos vitelognicos agrandados aparecieron en las hembras a mediados de mayo. Las hembras presentaron huevos en el oviducto de junio a septiembre. La vitelognesis, el crecimiento folicular, y la produccin de huevos estuvieron asociados con el incremento del fotoperodo y de la precipitacin, pero no con el de la temperatura. Nueve de las hembras colectadas (15%) mostraron evidencia de dos puestas, y 51 hembras (85%) mostraron evidencia de slO una puesta; los datos de las lagartijas marcadas revelaron que algunas hembras ponen hasta tres puestas. El tamao de la puesta basado en los huevos en el oviducto fue un promedio de 5.4  1.1 EE (4 a 8). El tamao de la puesta y el peso relativo de puesta (RCM) estuvieron correlacionados positivamente con la LHC de la hembra.
30055385|Una observacin de la conducta estereotpica llamada cosecha de lluvia en un espcimen silvestre de la lagartija camalen del desierto (Phyrnosoma platyrhinos) del este del desierto Mojave ed descrita e ilustrada. La postura de la lagartija era muy parecida a la misma previamente descrita en individuos en cautiverio de otra especie de lagartija camaln y a la de una lagartija agmida no pariente; todas las especies de lagartijas ya conocidas por la conducta de cosecha de lluvia son especialistas de reas ridas con una dieta de hormigas.
30055386|Localidades sintpicas entre Myotis auriculus y M. evotis registradas en colecciones y/o la literatura se verificaron via obervaciones directas en el campo. De las cuatro localidades de la deramente sintpica. Se describen tres localidades adicionales de sintopa del trabajo de ocampo. Interpretaciones de procesos ecolgicos, se deben hacer en base a sintopa verdadera (especies que estn presentes en el mismo lugar y al mismo tiempo), no en base a simpatra local (en la misma rea, pero no necesariamente al mismo tiempo). Localidades sintpicas, deben ser claramente indentificas y verificables por la presencia de especmenes u otra forma de registro (llamadas de ecolocacin en el caso de murcilagos).
30055387|El uso de polvo fluorescente para seguir micromamferos facilita el estudio de patrones del uso de microhbitat. Esta tcnica no ha sido frecuentamente usada en zonas ridas porque la transferencia de polvo desde la piel del roedor al suelo desnudo no es adecuada. Describimos una cpsula de peso liviano para dispensar polvo fluorescente desde roedores pequeos de desiertos. Presentamos datos preliminares en que usamos esta tcnica para evaluar si Dipodomys merriami se mueve al azar con respecto a la distancia de la vegetacin. Estos datos sugieren que D. merriami evita reas muy cerca a las plantas y prefiere pasar a las plantas a una distancia de 21 a 40 cm.
30055388|Se presenta informacin sobre registros de cuatro especies pelgicas de aves en la costa de Michoacn, en el Oeste de Mxico, que representan los primeros registros documentados para el estado de Michoacn y/o una expansin de su rango de distribucin conocido.
30055389|Siete ratones (Peromyscus maniculatus) con grados variados de alopecia fueron descubiertos recientemente en el hbitat de llanura de hierba alta en el estado de Oklahoma de los Estados Unidos. Un examen patolgico e histolgico no demostr ninguna evidencia de factores extrnsicos que causaron la condicin. Las mutaciones asociadas con alopecia han sido descritas, pero nunca en poblaciones silvestres de ratones. Proponemos que las mutaciones asociadas con alopecia ocurren en poblaciones silvestres.
30055390|Se caminaron setecientos cincuenta y nueve teransectos con longitud total de 1,191 km desde 1981 hasta 1986 para determinar la abundancia de tortugas de desierto (Gopherus agassizii) en el Campo de Pruebas en Nevada con relacin a asociaciones de vegetacin, elevacin, y origen geolgico de las montaas que lo rodean. La abundancia de tortugas es similar a la que se ha reportado en la regin alrededor de este sitio, pero mucho ms baja que en otras areas de Nevada y California. La evidencia de tortugas era mayor en areas dominadas por Larrea tridentata y rara vez o ausente de la asociacin de vegetacin Coleogyne ramosissima o asociaciones en el fondo de un valle rodeado por montaas. Se encontr evidencia de torutugas de 880 a 1,570 m y las tortugas eran ms abundantes de lo que previamente se haba reportado a ms de 1,200 m. La abundancia de tortugas era mayor en bajadas y laderas de montaas que en fondos de valles. Tambin eran ms comunes en o cerca de montaas de piedra de cal y dolomita que en montaas de origen volcnico.
30055391|El ciclo reproductivo de Masticophis bilineatus fue examinado en muestras de museos, recogidas en Arizona, Nuevo Mexico y Sonora, Mxico. Pareca que los machos seguan un ciclo testicular en el cual el esperma se produca en la primavera, verano tardo y el otoo. La produccin de huevos ocurra en la primavera, con los huevos depositados en el verano temprano, lo cual sugiere que el apareamiento ocurra en la primavera. El promedio de 12 puestas de huevos era 6.8, DE = 2.6, rango = 4 a 13. Pareca que slo una parte de la poblacin de hembras produca huevas en un ao determinado.
30055392|Este estudio provee datos que apoyan la existencia de un fenmeno fundador reciente conducente a diferencias genticas entre la poblacin original y la poblacin fundadora de Antilocapra americana (antilope americano). Veintisis presuntos loci genticos fueron examinados. Cinco resultaron polimrficos dentro de dos manadas del estado de Colorado y entre ellas. Estos datos apoyan la existencia de un fenmeno fundador en dos maneras. En primer lugar, las muestras indican cambios en la frecuencia de alelos en las dos de los loci de antlopes ms variables en muy corte tiempo. En segundo lugar, el estudio demuestra una variacin gentica entre poblaciones, en un mamfero extremadamente vagante, dentro de distancias cortas. Este es uno de los primeros estudios en documentar cambios de alelos entre una poblacin original y una poblacin fundadora de un mamfero grande.
30054078|Stem diameter-age relationships and age profiles were determined for four populations of Tamarix ramosissima growing in two habitat types in southern Nevada. Stream sites had older populations with less recruitment than lake shore sites. Differences in mean growth rings/cm were significant among all four sites. Linear models for the stem diameter-age relationship for each population are presented. /// La relacin entre el dimetro del tallo y la edad ms los perfiles de edad fueron determinados en cuatro poblaciones de Tamarix ramosissima que crecen en dos tipos de hbitat en el sur de Nevada. Los sitios a lo largo de arrollos tenan poblaciones ms viejas con menos reclutamiento que los en las orillas de los lagos. Las diferencias promedio de anillos de crecimiento/cm fueron significativas entre los cuatro sitios. Se presentan modelos lineales para la relacin de dimetro de tallo-edad de cada poblacin.
30054079|The crab spider, Misumenops celer (Thomisidae) (Hentz), is a sit-and-wait predator that forages for insects on the flowers of golden-eye phlox, Phlox roemeriana (Scheele) (Polemoniaceae). Spiders often alter flower morphology of this species by tying together two of the flower's five petals to form a "bower" that they then occupy. Access to the flower's corolla tube is partially to completely obstructed by bower construction in 70% of spider-altered flowers. We investigated the effect of bower construction on seed production by comparing the number of matured seeds in unaltered and spider-altered flowers in a natural population of P. roemeriana during the spring of 1996 in Hays Co., Texas. Spider-altered flowers produced significantly fewer seeds per fruit (X = 3.4, n = 135) than did unaltered flowers (X = 5.5, n = 108). This 38% reduction was attributable to a significantly higher incidence of spider-altered flowers failing to produce any seed, 37% versus 9% for unaltered flowers. Because P. roemeriana is an annual species and at our study site typically produced only a single flower, the observed reduction in seed production due to bower construction resulted in a significant decrease in female lifetime reproductive success for those plants whose flowers were modified. Spiders altered up to ca. 5% of flowers in the population at times during the flowering season. At the observed bower frequencies, the effect of M. celer on P. roemeriana seed production at the population level is minimal. /// La araa de mar, Misumenops celer (Thomisidae) (Hentz), es una especie rapaz que "se sienta y espera" para forrajear insectos en las flores del flox de ojo aureo (golden-eye phlox), Phlox roemeriana (Schelle) (Polemoniaceae). Las araas frecuentemente alteran morfologicamente la flor de esta especie, anudando dos de los cinco ptalos de la flor, formando un "arco" el cual despus ocupan. El acceso a la corola de la flor est parcial a completamente obstruido debido a la construccin del arco en 70% de las flores alteradas por la araa. Investigamos el efecto de la construccin del arco en la produccin de semillas, comparando el nmero de semillas maduras en flores alteradas y no alteradas por la araa en una poblacin natural de P. roemeriana durante la primavera de 1996 en el Condado de Hays, Texas, E. E. U. U. Las flores alteradas produjeron significativamente menos semillas por fruto (X = 3.4, n = 135) que las flores no alteradas (X = 5.5, n = 108). Esta reduccin de 38% fue imputable a una incidencia significativamente ms alta de flores alteradas fallando a producir ninguna semilla, 37% contra 9% en las flores no alteradas. Porque P. roemeriana es una especie anual y porque en nuestro sitio de estudio tpicamente produjo slo una flor, la reduccin observada en la produccin de semillas debido a la construccin del arco result en un decremento significante en el xito reproductivo de la vida en las plantas en que las flores fueron modificadas. Las araas alteraron hasta ca. 5% de las flores en la poblacin a veces durante la temporada de las flores. En las frecuencias observadas del arco, el efecto de M. celer en la produccin de semillas por P. roemeriana al nivel de la poblacin es mnimo.
30054080|A new subspecies of Leptotyphlops dulcis is described from six specimens from southwestern Tamaulipas, Mexico, distinguished on the basis of being the only taxon of the species usually lacking supraoculars. Relationships with L. humilis, usually distinguished from L. dulcis primarily by absence also of supraoculars, are discussed. /// Una nueva subespecie de Leptotyphlops dulcis es descrita en base a seis ejemplares del suroeste de Tamaulipas, Mxico. Esta subespecie se distingue por la falta usual de escamas supraoculares. Se discuten las relaciones con L. humilis, la cual usualmente se distingue de L. dulcis principalmente por la falta tambin de supraoculares.
30054081|Arroyos form distinctive habitats in desert foothills. To document herpetofaunal habitat associations with arroyos we operated 16 drift fences (eight in arroyos, eight on uplands) for 4,152 drift fence nights during spring and fall, 1993-1994. Only Scaphiopus couchii demonstrated an association for arroyo habitat, and only during fall 1993. Cnemidophorus marmoratus and C. exsanquis demonstrated possible seasonal associations with uplands. Statistical tests are characterized by low power, apparently resulting from small observed differences in relative abundance between habitats. Small observed differences suggest that, with some exceptions, arroyos versus uplands is not a habitat contrast of relevance to herpetofauna. A posteriori canonical correspondence analysis was applied to produce an ordination of species with six structural habitat variables (shrub cover, grass and forb cover at two heights, amount of detritus, stones and rocks, and sand on the substrate). This comparison, although suggesting a tendency for herpetofauna to favor arroyos, failed to show a significant relationship between herpetofauna and environmental variables. This study suggests that environmental variables other than those directly related to vegetation will be important determinants of herpetofaunal habitat suitability. /// Los arroyos conforman un hbitat caracterstico al pie de las colinas en los desiertos. Para documentar las asociaciones del hbitat de la herpetofauna con los arroyos, en la primavera y el otoo de 1993 y 1994 monitoreamos 16 cercas de desvo (ocho en arroyos y ocho en tierras elevadas) por un total de 4,152 noches-trampeo. Slo Scaphiopus couchii demostr una asociacin con el hbitat del arroyo, y slo durante el otoo de 1993. Cnemidophorus marmoratus y C. exsanquis demostraron posibles asociaciones estacionales con las tierras elevadas. Las pruebas estadsticas se caracterizan por una baja potencia, lo cual es una consecuencia aparente de las pequeas diferencias de frecuencias relativas observadas entre los hbitat. Las pequeas diferencias observadas sugieren que, con ciertas excepciones, los arroyos y las tierras elevadas no implican hbitat contrastantes de importancia para la herpetofauna. A posteriori se aplic un anlisis de correspondencia cannica para producir el ordenamiento de especies considerando seis variables estructurales de hbitat (cubierta de arbustos; cubierta de pastos y malezas en dos alturas; cantidad de detritos, piedras y rocas, y arena en sustratos). Aunque esta comparacin sugiere una preferencia de la herpetofauna por los arroyos, no establece una relacin significativa entre la herpetofauna y las variables ambientales. Este estudio sugiere que variables ambientales distintas de las que se relacionan directamente con la vegetacin, sern determinantes importantes de la conveniencia del hbitat para la herpetofauna.
30054082|Cactus wren (Campylorhynchus brunneicapillus) nests from the southern Chihuahuan Desert contained viable seeds of grasses, forbs, and shrubs. The most common plants used as construction material in these nests were Muhlenbergia porteri, Boerhavia spicata, and the alien grass Eragrostis lehmanniana. We suggest that birds are potentially important dispersers of certain types of plants in semiarid rangelands through the use of plants with seeds as nesting material. Implications of this process for rangeland plant dynamics need to be further explored. /// Nidos del reyezuelo (Troglodytidae: Campylorhynchus brunneicapillus) en el sur del Desierto Chihuahuense contuvieron semillas viables de zacates, hierbas y arbustos. Las plantas ms frecuentemente usadas como material para construir estos nidos fueron Muhlenbergia porteri, Boerhavia spicata y el zacate extico, Eragrostis lehmanniana. Sugerimos que son importantes los pjaros en la dispersin de algunos tipos de plantas en los matorrales semiridos por el uso de las plantas con semillas como material para construir los nidos. Es necesario estudiar ms las implicaciones de este proceso para las dinmicas de las plantas de matorrales.
30054083|Foothills shrub in the northern Colorado Front Range is a patchy habitat naturally embedded in a mosaic of grassland and conifer forest. We investigated associations of breeding songbirds in foothills shrub with local habitat characteristics and landscape context. Avian distributions were quantified using 84 points counted 6 times each over 2 years, and species were categorized as breeding-season residents or non-residents. We quantified habitat structure and shrub species composition using a point-quarter technique and visual estimation of cover, and sampled landscape context within 500 m of study points using aerial orthophotograph images. We used multiple logistic regression to analyze associations between 15 habitat and landscape variables and breeding residence of each of the eight most common breeding bird species: spotted towhee (Pipilo maculatus), brown-headed cowbird (Molothrus ater), green-tailed towhee (Pipilo chlorurus), Virginia's warbler (Vermivora virginiae), yellow-breasted chat (Icteria virens), broad-tailed hummingbird (Selasphorus platycercus), lazuli bunting (Passerina amoena), and blue-gray gnatcatcher (Polioptila caerulea). Five of these species showed significant relationships between breeding residence and at least one local habitat variable, in ways generally consistent with their known habitat requirements. In a multiple regression with habitat and landscape variables, species richness was positively associated with two habitat characteristics: shrub cover and horizontal heterogeneity. No species was significantly associated with landscape context of shrub, grassland, or coniferous forest at the scale of our analysis, suggesting that shrub patches with appropriate local characteristics were used regardless of their natural landscape setting in this system. We conclude that breeding species in foothills shrub may have evolved tolerance for habitat fragmentation because it represents the natural state of the landscape in which they occur. /// El hbitat de arbustos de las faldas de las Montaas Rocallosas en el norte de Colorado es un hbitat en parches naturalmente incrustado en un mosaico de pastizales y bosques conferos. Se estudi la asociacin de aves cantoras que anidan en este hbitat con caractersticas del hbitat local y con contexto del paisaje. Las distribuciones de aves fueron cuantificadas en 84 lugares, cada lugar contado seis veces durante dos aos, y las especies fueron categorizadas como residentes o no residentes. Cuantificamos la estructura del hbitat y la composicin de las especies de arbustos usando la tcnica de puntos-cuadrados y la estimacin visual de cobertura, y muestreamos el contexto del paisaje dentrode 500 m de los puntos fijos usando imgenes ortofotogrficas. Usamos regresin mltiple logstica para analizar asociaciones entre 15 variables de hbitat y del paisaje con la clase de residencia para cada una de las ocho especies ms comunes: Pipilo maculatus, Molothrus ater, Pipilo chlorurus, Vermivora virginiae, Icteria virens, Selasphorus platycercus, Passerina amoena, y Polioptila caerula. Cinco de estas especies mostraron relaciones significativas entre la clase de residencia y por lo menos una variable del hbitat local, en maneras generalmente consistentes con lo que se conoce sobre sus requisitos de hbitat. En una regresin mltiple con variables de hbitat y de paisaje, la riqueza de las especies fue asociada positivamente con dos caractersticas del hbitat: la cobertura de arbustos y la heterogeneidad horizontal. Ninguna especie fue asociada significativamente con el contexto del paisaje de arbustos, pastizales, o bosque conifero en la escala de nuestro anlisis, sugiriendo que las reas de arbustos con caractersticas locales apropiadas fueron usadas sin importar el paisaje natural en este sistema. Concluimos que las especies que anidan en arbustos de las faldas de las montaas posiblemente han desarrollado tolerancia para la fragmentacin del hbitat porque representa el estado natural del paisaje en el cual ocurren.
30054084|Growth rates were determined for two captive litters (one male and one female) of nine-banded armadillos (Dasypus novemcinctus) born to the same parents in two successive years. For females, gain in mass from birth to about 2 years old was best described by a fourth order polynomial function. However, increase in mass was linear from birth up to at least 400 days of age. The male litter was born the year after the female litter and also showed a linear increase in mass from birth through their first year. Males were significantly heavier than females of the same age, even though the female litter was born earlier and weaned later than the male litter. Comparisons between masses of wild-caught and captive juveniles weighed during the same time period (June to August) revealed few differences, but comparisons of growth rates suggested that wildcaught animals may have been born later and grown faster than their captive counterparts. As with data from captives, long-term (greater than 1 year) changes in mass of wild-caught animals were best described by a fourth order polynomial. Data on growth rates may have some value in predicting ages of juveniles from their body mass. /// Se determinaron tasas de crecimiento para dos camadas (una de machos y una de hembras) de armadillos de nueve bandas (Dasypus novemcinctus) nacidos en cautiverio de los mismos padres en dos aos sucesivos. Para la camada femenina, el aumento en la masa desde el nacimiento hasta dos aos de edad fue descrito mejor por una funcin de polinomio del cuarto orden. Sin embargo, el aumento en la masa fue lineal desde el nacimiento hasta al menos 400 das de edad. La camada masculina naci el ao despus de la camada femenina y tambin mostr un aumento lineal en la masa desde el nacimiento hasta el primer ao. Los machos pesaron significativamente ms que las hembras de la misma edad, aunque la camada femenina naci antes y destet despus de la camada masculina. La comparacin de la masa de juveniles silvestres con juveniles cautivos pesados durante el mismo perodo (junio a agosto) no revel mucha diferencia, pero se not una diferencia en la tasa de crecimiento. Esto sugiere que los animales silvestres nacieron ms tarde y crecieron ms rpido que sus contrapartes cautivos. Semejante a los datos de los animales cautivos, los cambios en la masa a largo plazo (ms que un ao) fueron descritos mejor por un polinomio del cuarto orden. Los datos de la tasa de crecimiento quizs tienen valor en predecir las edades de juveniles basados en su masa corporal.
30054085|Despite the rapid expansion of urban areas in the United States, use of developed areas by native wildlife has not been studied for many species. I used a mail survey to examine characteristics of sightings of bobcats (Lynx rufus) and attitudes of homeowners toward bobcats in three residential areas in New Mexico. Bobcats do use residential areas and will enter the vicinity of houses, including areas with urban-level densities of houses. Over 70% of sightings were < 25 m of a house. Sightings were more frequent in winter and in areas with higher densities of houses. Sightings were clustered adjacent to large undeveloped areas. Homeowner attitudes toward bobcats predominantly were positive. Homeowners in two semi-rural areas responded more to the survey and liked the idea of bobcats in their areas more than homeowners in an urban area. /// A pesar de la rpida expansin de las reas urbanas dentro de los Estados Unidos, el uso de reas desarrolladas por la fauna silvestre nativa no se ha estudiado para muchas especies. Por medio de una encuesta por correo, examin las caractersticas de los avistamientos de los gatos monts (Lynx rufus) y las actitudes de los caseros con los gatos monts en tres reas residenciales en Nuevo Mxico. Los gatos monts s usan reas residenciales y entran en la vecindad de las casas, incluyendo reas con densidades a nivel urbano. Ms del 70% de los avistamientos fueron a <25 m de una casa. Los avistamientos fueron ms frecuentes en el invierno y en reas con altas densidades de casas. Los avistamientos fueron ms frecuentes al lado de reas grandes no desarrrolladas. La mayora de las actitudes de los caseros con los gatos monts fueron positivas. Los caseros de dos reas semirurales respondieron ms a la encuesta y les gust ms la idea de tener gatos monts en su cercana ms que a los caseros del rea urbana.
30054086|A survey of parasites of the swift fox (Vulpes velox) was conducted in Colorado during August 1989 and January 1990. One coccidean, six nematode, and one cestode species were identified from 14 foxes. Two tick and one flea species were collected from 22 foxes. None of 15 foxes sampled had evidence of Dirofilaria immitis microfilaremia. /// Durante los meses de agosto de 1989 y enero de 1990 se Ilevo a cabo una investigacin de ecto y endoparsitos del zorro veloz (Vulpes velox) en el estado de Colorado, E.E.U.U. De un total de 14 zorros se obtuvieron una especie de coccidia, seis especies de nemtodos y una de cstodos. Dos especies de garrapata y una especie de pulga fueron colectadas de 22 zorros. Ninguno de los 15 zorros muestreados tena evidencia alguna de microfilaremia producida por Dirofilaria immitis.
30054087|Rodent populations were sampled at sites in California chaparral and coastal sage scrub six months after wildfire. Sites adjacent to unburned brush were compared with sites in the center of large burned areas. Eight species of rodents were captured. Species of Peromyscus were the most abundant, 40.2% of individuals captured; followed by Neotoma (32.4%), Chaetodipus (20.3%), and Dipodomys (7.0%). Peromyscus maniculatus accounted for 32.8% of all individuals and was captured most frequently at sites in the center of large burns. Neotoma lepida which accounted for 31.3% of individuals captured, was trapped most commonly at the periphery of burns. Several species showed contrasting distribution patterns in coastal sage scrub and in chaparral. Coastal sage scrub sites had the highest estimates of rodent populations. Species diversity varied widely among sites. /// Se tomaron muestras de poblaciones de roedores en seis sitios en California con vegetacin de chaparral y matorral de artemisa de la costa seis meses despus de un incendio natural. Se compararon sitios contigos al matorral no quemado con sitios en el centro de reas grandes quemadas. Ocho especies de roedores fueron capturadas. Las especies de Peromyscus fueron ms abundantes (40.2% del total de los individuos capturados), seguidas de Neotoma (32.4%), Chaetodipus (20.3%) y Dipodomys (7.0%). Peromyscus maniculatus, que constituy el 32.8% del total, fue capturado ms frecuentemente en los sitios del centro de las quemas grandes. Neotoma lepida, que constituy el 31.3% de indiviuos capturados, fue atrapado ms comunmente en las orillas de las quemas. Algunas especies mostraron patrones contrastantes de distribucin en los habitat de matorral de artemisa de la costa y chaparral. Las ms altas estimaciones de poblaciones de roedores se encontraron en las zonas de matorral de artemisa de la costa. La diversidad de especies vari mucho entre los sitios.
30054088|Descriptions of distinct behaviors and vocalizations associated with mating are available for some bat species, but similar observations have not been reported for the Mexican freetailed bat (Tadarida brasiliensis mexicana). In this paper, we describe the sequence and timing of scent marking activity, territorial defense, and vocalizations associated with pre-mating activity for two captive colonies of this species. Males in these captive colonies developed a distinctive odor and marked territories by rubbing secretions from their gular glands on surfaces of cages. These males demonstrated an obvious affinity for particular locations within the cage and appeared to defend these areas, both vocally and physically, against intrusion by other males. Two types of audible vocalizations were noted in relation to pre-mating activity by these males. The first was a buzz that may have been used to announce establishment of mating territories and to call females to these areas. The second was a faint chirping vocalization that may have functioned as a mating song or perhaps an indication of more immediate sexual intent. /// Existen algunas descripciones sobre distintos comportamientos y vocalizaciones asociados con el apareamiento de varias especies de murcilagos; sin embargo, observaciones similares no han sido reportadas en el murcilago mexicano de cola libre (Tadarida brasiliensis mexicana). En este artculo describimos la secuencia y el patrn temporal de marcaje con olores, defensa territorial y vocalizaciones asociadas con la actividad precopulatoria en dos colonias en cautiverio de esta especie. Los machos en estas colonias desarrollaron un olor caracterstico y marcaron su territorio restregando las superficies de las jaulas con una secrecin producida en las glndulas gulares. Estos machos mostraron una preferencia obvia por un sitio particular dentro de la jaula, el cual era defendido fisicamente y con vocalizaciones contra la intrusin de otros machos. Se registraron dos tipos de vocalizaciones audibles en relacin al comportamiento precopulatorio de los machos. El primero fue un zumbido que pudo haber usado para anunciar el establecimiento de un territorio de apareamiento y para atraer hembras hacia estas reas. El segundo fue un dbil chirrido que pudo haber funcionado como canto de apareamiento o quizs una seal de un intento sexual ms inmediato.
30054089|Los datos de la dispercin al norte desde hace casi 150 aos desde el sur de Texas por el armadillo de nueve bandas (Dasypus novemcinctus) son revisados. El registro ms hacia al norte para est especie esth ahora a 8 mi. O. Ord, Valley Co., Nebraska. Otros tres especmenes de armadillos son reportados en Nebraska. Se discuten nueve avistamientos adicionales de la especie. Dos de estos avistamientos fueron confirmados basndose en datos que no provinieron de especmenes de museos. La mayora de las medidas de los especmenes de Nebraska caen en el rango de las muestras reportadas de los Rolling Plains de Texas y de Oklahoma, indicando que el material de Nebraska exhibe poca o no diferenciacin morfolgica con las poblaciones sureas. Los armadillos de los condados de Chase, Dundy, y Furnas en el suroeste de Nebraska parecen estar cercanamente asociados con el Republican River y sus tributarios y probablemente Ilegaron al estado por medio de estos habitat rivereos del noroeste de Kansas y del noreste de Colorado. Los registros del centro y del este de Nebraska no estn relacionados a un slo sistema de ros. Los movimientos de los armadillos no estn confinados a los habitat rivereos en el este de Nebraska probablemente por el clima ms hmedo y la irrigacin de pivote central y de acequia y los armadillos deben estar entrando a esta parte de Nebraska por la parte central norte de Kansas.
30054090|Un macho adulto de Bauerus dubiaquercus (Vespertilionidae) se colect el 1 de septiembre de 1995 en una localidad de la Sierra Mazateca, Oaxaca, situada a 5 km NE de Puente de Jimnez, cerca de Huatla de Jimnez. Este registro resulta ser el primero para el estado de Oaxaca, Mxico.
30054091|Esta nota describe la primera confirmacin de la reproduccin del cormorn neotropical (Phalacrocorax brasilianus) en el estado de Arkansas, E. E. U. U. Esto implica una extensin de su rea de anidacin 150 km al noreste del sitio con la confirmacin de reproduccin ms cercana en Texas. En junio de 1996 una pareja de aves adultas con su pollada fue observada en un pequeo estanque en Lafayetta County. Como en otras zonas interiores, el nido se encontraba en un criadero de garzas compuesto de varias especies, particularmente la garza ganadera (Bulbulcus ibis).
30054092|En esta nota se reporta el primer registro de Phrynosoma modestum en Colorado. La evidencia que se presenta sugiere que esta poblacin ha existido por lo menos 30 aos. Este nuevo registro extiende el rea de distribucin de esta especie 177 km al noroeste de la localidad ms prxima (en Oklahoma), y representa el lmite norte conocido del rea de su distribucin.
30054093|Reportamos diferencias dramticas en cuanto al patrn de colores entre dos individuos de la serpiente Agkistrodon contortrix pictigaster. Dichas diferencias se distinguen ms en las anchuras de bandas dorsales de colores claros.
30054094|El pescado "guitarfish" del Atlntico (Rhinobatos lentiginosus) es una especie supuestamente abundante cerca de la costa y tiene una distribucin desde Carolina del Norte hasta Mxico. La literatura publicada de su reproduccin est limitada a dos reportes del tamao de la camada. Presentamos informacin adicional del tamao de las camadas, la proporcin sexual de las camadas, el tamao mnimo de madurez de las hembras, y la distribucin de las poblaciones en el Golfo de Mxico. Un total de 79 embriones/neonatos fue recogido de 12 hembras, produciendo un promedio de tamao de camada de 6.6. Una sola camada de Texas contuvo seis hembras y dos machos (determinado por la ausencia o presencia de los mixipterigios, respectivamente). Los neonatos de Florida tambin fueron a favor de la hembra (18:11). Hubo una relacin lineal significativa entre el tamao materno y el nmero de embriones/neonatos en el Golfo de Mexico. Rhinobatos lentiginosus es comn en solamente dos lugares en la costa de Texas: las vecindades de Port Aransas y South Padre Island. En la costa del Golfo de Mxico de Florida, la especie parece ser ms comn en sitios con vegetacin marina en las bocas de los ros o sobre sustratos arenosos.
30055396|Effects of stump diameter and thinning treatments at different ages of coppice are described in terms of growth and yield of Emory oak (Quercus emoryi) sprouts over a 5-year period. Growth and yield of residual sprouts depend largely on the number of sprouts left after thinning, and the age of sprouts at thinning. Effects of stump diameter were inconclusive. Harvesting cycles for fuelwood might be reduced through proper timing of thinning. /// Los efectos del dimetro del tocn y tratamientos de raleo a sotos de edades diferentes son descritos con respecto al crecimiento y produccin de brotes en el encino Emory (Quercus emoryi) a travs de un perodo de cinco aos. El crecimiento y produccion de brotes residuales dependen principalmente de la cantidad de brotes que quedan despus del raleo y de la edad de los brotes al momento del raleo. Los efectos del dimetro del tocn no fueron concluyentes. Losciclos de cosecha para obtener lea pueden ser reducidos con el raleo hecho en momentos propicios.
30055397|Development of dense stands of Ashe juniper (Juniperus ashie) results in diminished understory herbaceous production and diversity. This study was conducted to examine effects of juniper canopy, shade, soil alteration, and litter accumulation on recruitment and establishment of understory species. Four canopy treatments (with juniper canopy, juniper canopy removed, juniper canopy removed and artificial shade added, and grassland control) and two litter treatments (present or absent) were studied. Recruitment of planted Bouteloua curtipendula, Leptochloa dubia, and Sophora secundiflom seeds was monitored. Thirteen months after planting, a subset of the intact juniper canopy, juniper canopy removed, and grassland treatments was sampled for plant density by species. Removal of Ashe juniper canopies resulted in increased recruitment of planted B. curtipendula and L. dubia. Shade initially did not affect recruitment adversely, but restricted it over time. Reduced recruitment of seeded species in Ashe juniper litter appeared to be due primarily to the interaction of physical features of the litter and the moisture regime rather than chemical alteration or allelopathy. Grass and forb establishment increased with removal of the Ashe juniper canopy and litter. Establishment of S. secundiflora or other shrubs was not affected by the presence of shade, juniper canopy, or juniper litter. /// El desarrollo de parcelas densas del enebro Ashe (Juniperus ashei) resulta en una menor produccin y diversidad herbcea del sotobosque. Este estudio se realiz para examinar los efectos de la cubierta de las copas del enebro, la sombra, la alteracin del suelo y la acumulacin de hojarasca sobre el reclutamiento y el establecimiento de especies del sotobosque. Se estudiaron cuatro tratamientos de la cubierta de las copas (con la cubierta de las copas del enebro, sin la cubierta de las copas, sin la cubierta de las copas ms una sombra artificial, y el control de pastizal) y dos tratamientos de hojarasca (presente o ausente). Se monitore el reclutamiento de Bouteloua curtipendula, Leptochloa dubia y Sophora secundiflora desde semillas semibradas. Trece meses despus de la siembra, se tomaron muestras de un subconjunto de los tratamientos con la cubierta intacta de las copas del enebro, sin la cubierta de las copas del enebro y de pastizales para determinar la densidad de las plantas por especie. Al retirar las cubiertas de las copas del enebro Ashe se increment el reclutamiento de B. curtipendula y L. dubia sembradas. La sombra al principio no afect adversamente el reclutamiento, pero lo limit con el tiempo. El menor reclutamiento de especies desde semillas en la hojarasca del enebro Ashe parece deberse principalmente a la interaccin de las caracteristicas fsicas de la hojarasca y el rgimen de humedad y no a la alteracin qumica o a la alelopata. El establecimiento de pastizal e hierbajos aument con la eliminacin de la cubierta de las copas y la hojarasca del enebro Ashe. El establecimiento de S. secundiflora o de otros arbustos no fue afectado por la presencia de sombra, la cubierta de las copas del enebro o la hojarasca del enebro.
30055398|The biota of ten major tributaries of the Colorado River through Grand Canyon, Arizona, were examined bimonthly in 1991 and annually in 1993, 1994, and 1996. Identification, distribution and phenology of 42 insect genera are reported. We found significant variability in macroinvertebrate biomass between tributaries and seasonal differences within tributaries. Some of these differences can be explained in terms of stream source and watershed characteristics. Spring-fed tributaries originating within the Grand Canyon had higher macroinvertebrate biomass than tributaries draining large watersheds from outside the Grand Canyon. Tributaries that receive a substantial amount of their water from terrestrial runoff typically are less stable, have higher turbidity, and fewer food resources so that fewer species and/or individuals can be sustained. Irrigation, grazing, and other land use practices that reduce flow and increase sedimentation within these watersheds may have repercussions far downstream of where they occur. /// La biota de diez tributarios mayores del Ro Colorado a travs del Gran Can, Arizona, fueron examinados bimestralmente en 1991 y anualmente en 1993, 1994, y 1996. La identificacin, distribucin, y fenologa de 42 gneros de insectos son registrados. Encontramos una varedad significativa en biomasa de macroinvertebrados entre tributarios tanto como diferencias estacionales dentro de tributarios. Algunas de estas diferencias pueden ser explicadas en trminos de las caractersticas del nacimiento de los tributarios y de las cuencas. Los tributarios de origen manantial dentro del Gran Can tenan mayor biomasa de macroinvertebrados que los tributarios alimentados por cuencas grandes de fuera del Gran Can. Los tributarios que reciben gran cantidad de agua proveniente de terrenos de desages son tpicamente ms inestables, tienen mayor turbiedad, y menos recursos de comida por lo que menos especies y/o individuos pueden ser sostenidos. Regar, pastar, y otras prcticas de uso de la tierra que reducen el flujo e incrementan la sedimentacin dentro de estas cuencas pueden tener repercusiones mucho ms ro abajo que de donde ocurren.
30055399|Anecdotal evidence suggests that Quercus fusiformis and Quercus buckleyi, two dominant trees of central Texas savannas and woodlands, are not recruiting to adult size classes on the eastern Edwards Plateau. To evaluate this hypothesis, size distributions of Quercus fusiformis and Quercus buckleyi populations are described. In the majority of savannas and live oak/juniper stands surveyed, Quercus fusiformis saplings and sapling-sized root sprouts (40 cm tall to 5 cm dbh) and small adults (5 to 15 cm dbh) were rarer than mid-sized adults (15 to 25 cm dbh) suggesting that adult recruitment of this species is below replacement rate at most sites. Quercus buckleyi saplings were much rarer than small adults in all mixed woodlands surveyed, suggesting that adult recruitment of this species from seed is not occurring on the eastern Edwards Plateau. Seedlings of Quercus buckleyi and seedlings and seedling-sized root sprouts of Quercus fusiformis (0 to 40 cm tall) frequently were abundant, suggesting that high seedling mortality rates may contribute greatly to poor adult recruitment. Intense browsing pressure by white-tailed deer may be the primary cause of poor adult recruitment of both species. It is unlikely that episodic adult recruitment will maintain populations of either Quercus fusiformis or Quercus buckleyi, as a reduction in seedling mortality rates over many years would be necessary to allow the slow-growing seedlings to escape their vulnerability to browsing herbivores. /// Evidencia anecdtica sugiere que Quercus fusiformis y Quercus buckleyi, dos rboles dominantes de sabanas y bosques del centro de Texas, no redutan individuos hasta el tamao adulto en el este del Edwards Plateau. Para probar esta hiptesis, describimos la distribucin de tamaos en poblaciones de Quercus fusiformis y Quercus buckleyi. En la mayora de las sabanas y parcelas de Quercus fusiformis/Juniperus ashei examinadas, los arbolitos y retoos de raz del tamao de arbolito de Quercus fusiformis (40 cm de altura a 5 cm de dap) y los adultos pequeos (5 a 15 cm dap) fueron ms escasos que los adultos medianos (15 a 25 cm dap), sugiriendo que el reclutamiento de adultos de esta especie est por debajo de la tasa de reemplazo en casi todos los sitios. Los arbolitos de Quercus buckleyi fueron mucho ms escasos que los adultos pequeos en todos los bosques mixtos examinados, indicando la falta de reclutamiento de adultos de esta especie desde la semilla en el este del Edwards Plateau. Se hallaron abundantes plntulas de Quercus buckleyi y abundantes plntulas y brotes de raz del tamao de plntulas (0 a 40 cm de altura) de Quercus fusiformis. Esto sugiere que la alta tasa de mortalidad de este tamao de plantas quizs contribuya mucho a la escasez de adultos. El ramoneo intenso de venados de cola blanca puede ser la causa primaria del escaso reclutamiento de adultos de ambas especies. No es probable que el reclutamiento de adultos en episodios aislados mantenga las poblaciones de Quercus fusiformis o de Quercus buckleyi. Para ello sera necesario que la tasa de mortalidad de plantas que miden menos de 40 cm y que tienen crecimiento lento bajara durante muchos aos para que estas plantas escaparan al ramoneo de herbvoros.
30055400|Rio Grande sucker, Catostomus plebeius, has declined in the Rio Grande Basin in Colorado, and was listed as a Colorado state endangered species in 1993. The fish is now known to occur in only one location, Hot Creek. We documented distribution and abundance of Rio Grande sucker in Hot Creek in 1994 and described aspects of its biology, habitat use, and fish assemblage. Rio Grande sucker occurred in about 8 km of Hot Creek, with a streamwide population size of 1,426 fish (95% confidence interval = 651-2,201). The only micro- or meso-scale habitat characteristic that was related to Rio Grande sucker abundance was amount of fine sediment. Hybridization with the nonnative white sucker does not appear to be a major factor in decline of Rio Grande sucker in Colorado but other biotic interactions with that species may be important. /// El matalote del Bravo, Catostomus plebus, ha disminuido en la Cuenca del Ro Grande en Colorado, y fue catalogado como una especie en peligro de extincin en el estado de Colorado en 1993. Se sabe que el pez ocurre ahora en un slo lugar en Colorado, Hot Creek. Documentamos la distribucin y abundancia del matalote del Bravo en Hot Creek en 1994, y describimos aspectos de su biologa, de su uso de hbitat y de la ictiofauna local. El matalote del Bravo occuri en ms o menos 8 km en Hot Creek, con una poblacin a lo largo del arroyo de 1,426 peces (95% intervalo de confidencia = 651-2,201). El nico hbitat a la escala micro o meso que se relacion a la abundancia del matalote del Bravo fue la cantidad de sedimento fino. La hibridacin con el matalote no nativo no parece ser un factor importante en 1a disminucin del matalote del Bravo en Colorado pero otras interacciones biticas con las especies puenden ser importantes.
30055401|A total of 197 mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) restriction sites was surveyed among samples representing the five species of the Cyprinella lutrensis group inhabiting the southwestern United States: formosa, lepida, cf. lepida, lutrensis, and proserpina. Average nucleotide sequence divergence between proserpina and the other four species was greater than that found between the other species and two species from the Cypnnella whipplei group (C. galactura and C. venusta) that were employed as outgroup taxa in phylogenetic analysis. These data coincide with other genetic data that suggest proserpina is not closely related to these species of the C. lutrensis group. Alternatively, proserpina may have experienced heterogeneous, perhaps rapid, genomic evolution. Maximum-parsimony analysis (employing unordered restriction-site characters) of the remaining four species (i.e., excluding proserpina) produced an unresolved tetrachotomy. Maximum-parsimony analysis that employed Dollo parsimony and neighbor-joining analysis of nucleotide sequence divergence estimates among the four species generated resolved but conflicting topologies. In the neighbor-joining analysis, branch lengths between species were short in comparison to branches to terminal taxa. Maximum-likelihood analysis generated a topology congruent with that generated by Dollo parsimony. Statistical comparisons (likelihood test of Kishino and Hasegawa), however, indicated that the conflicting topologies produced by Dollo parsimony (and maximum-likelihood) versus neighbor-joining were equally likely. The simplest interpretation of these data is that the four species evolved near-synchronously from a series of vicariant events that occurred in the western Gulf Coastal Plain. This interpretation is consistent with the hypothesis that ancestors to the C. lutrensis group entered the western Gulf Coastal Plain via connections with the western Great Plains before the onset of Pleistocene glaciation. /// Se muestrearon un total de 197 sitios de restriccin ADN mitocondrial (mtDNA) entre muestras de cinco especies del grupo Cyprinella lutrensis habitantes del suroeste de los Estados Unidos: C. formosa, C. lepida, C. cf. lepida, lutrensis, y proserpina. La divergencia promedio de la secuencia nucletida entre C. proserpina y las otras cuatro especies fue ms grande que la encontrada entre las otras especies y dos especies del grupo Cyprinella whipplei (C. galactura y C. venusta) que fueron empleadas como los taxa del grupo-externo en un anlisis filogentico. Estos datos coinciden con otros datos genticos que sugieren que C. proserpina no est relacionada cercanamente a las especies del grupo C. lutrensis. Alternativamente, C. proserpina pudo haber experimentado una evolucin genmica heterognea, quizs rpida. El anlisis "maximum-parsimony" (empleando carcteres no ordenados de sitios de restriccin) de las cuatro especies restantes (i.e., excluyendo C. proserpina) produjo una tetracrotoma sin resolver. El anlisis "maximum-parsimony" que emplea "Dollo-parsimony" y el de vecinos-ligados de la estimacin de divergencia de secuencia nucletida entre las cuatro especies generaron tipologas resueltas pero conflictivas. En el anlisis de vecinos-ligados, las longitudes de las ramas entre especies fueron cortas en comparacin a las ramas hacia los taxa terminales. El anlisis "maximum-likelihood" gener una topologa congruente con la generada por "Dollo-parsimony". Comparaciones estadsticas ("likelihood test" de Kishino y Hasegawa), sin embargo, indicaron que las topologas conflictivas producidas por "Dollo-parsimony" (y "maximum-likelihood") contra la de vecinos-ligados fueron igualmente probables. La interpretacin ms simple para estos datos es que las cuatro especies evolvieron casi sincrnicamente de una serie de eventos vicarios que ocurrieron en los planos costales ponientes del Golfo de Mxico. Esta interpretacin es consistente con la hiptesis de que los ancestros del grupo de C. lutrensis entraron a los planos costales ponientes del Golfo de Mxico va conecciones con las Grandes entes antes del inicio de la glaciacin del Pleistoceno.
30055402|We studied reproduction in Gadow's spiny lizard Sceloporus gadovae from arid tropical scrub forest in Guerrero, Mxico. Male and female reproductive cycles are synchronous and their peak coincides with the wet season (May-September), but females remain reproductive longer through the year than males. Males and females mature at 7 to 8 months of age. Mean clutch size based on oviductal eggs was 3.6, and 3.8 when based on ovarian follicles. Many females had numerous atretic follicles, suggesting females may have some control over clutch size, or that some females did not have enough energy to complete vitellogenesis. Females may produce more than one clutch per season. Clutch size and egg size were not related to body size. Sceloporus gadovae appears to be influenced by the seasonality of the arid tropics; however, we suggest that seasonality be viewed as a gradient, not as a dichotomy, when considering reproductive patterns. /// Estudiamos la reproduccin de la lagartija espinosa de Gadow Sceloporus gadovae en un bosque tropical caducifolio de Guerrero, Mxico. Los ciclos de machos y hembras son sincrnicos y coinciden con la estacin hmeda (mayo-septiembre), pero las hembras siguen reproductivas ms tiempo a travs del ao que los machos. Machos y hembras maduran a una edad de 7 a 8 meses. La media del tamao de la puesta basada en huevos encontados en el oviducto fue 3.6, y 3.8 cuando sta se bas en folculos ovricos. Gran cantidad de hembras tuvieron numerosos folculos atrsicos, sugiriendo que las hembras pueden tener algn control sobre el tamao de la puesta, o que algunas hembras no tuvieron suficiente energa para completar la vitelognesis. Las hembras pueden producir ms de una puesta por estacin. El tamao de la puesta y el tamao de los huevos no estuvieron relacionados al tamao del cuerpo. S. gadovae parece estar influenciado por la estacionalidad del trpico rido, sin embargo, nosotros sugerimos que la estacionalidad sea vista como un gradiente, no como una dicotoma, cuando se consideran patrones reproductivos.
30055403|Population dynamics of Sceloporus grammicus were studied at La Michila Biosphere Reserve, Durango, Mexico, from 1979 to 1982 using mark-recapture methods. Estimated population density was 166 individuals (adults and sub-adults) per hectare, with adults averaging 42 individuals per hectare. Sex ratio was approximately 1:1, with females slightly dominating at older ages. Six different age classes were established: a) juveniles from 0 to 3 months of age, b) sub-adults from 3 to 5 months of age, c) adults I, individuals in their first reproductive season from 5 to 12 months of age, d) adults II, individuals in their second reproductive season and older than 1 year, e) adults III, individuals in their third reproductive season and older than 2 years, and f) adults IV, individuals in their fourth reproductive season and older than 3 years. Average litter size for females was 6.17 neonates  1.65 SE and varied widely (three to nine neonates) as a function of female body size. Estimated number of neonates in 10 hectares was 1,482 and embryo mortality was 7.2%. After hatching, the average mortality was higher than 55% from one age-class to the next. The mortality rate was lowest for the male adult I class (53.8%), and highest for the male adult III class (89.0%), below only the 100% mortality exhibited by adult IV individuals (the final age class). The population life table indicates a Slobodkin Type IV survivorship curve, with high mortality occurring at younger ages and a population replacement rate (net reproductive rate) close to 1.00. Average generation time for this population was 1.09 years. This is the first study of the population dynamics of this species. /// La dinmica poblacional de Sceloporus grammicus fue estudiada en la Reserva de la Bisfera de La Michila, Durango, Mxico, de 1979 a 1982 usando mtodos de marca recaptura. La densidad poblacional estimada fue de 166 individuos (adultos ms subadultos) por hectrea, promediando los adultos 42 individuos por hectrea. La proporcin sexual fue de aproximadamente 1:1 dominando las hembras en las mayores clases de edad. Seis diferentes clases de edad fueron establecidas: a) juveniles, de 0 a 3 meses de edad, b) subadultos, de 3 a 5 meses de edad, c) adultos I, individuos en su primera estacin reproductiva de 5 a 12 meses de edad, d) adultos II, individuos en su segunda estacin reproductiva y mayores que 1 ao, e) adultos III, individuos en su tercera estacin reproductiva y mayores que 2 aos, y f) adultos IV, individuos en su cuarta estacin reproductiva y mayores que 3 aos. El tamao promedio de camada para las hembras fue de 6.17 neonatos  1.65 DE, variando ampliamente (de 3 a 9 neonatos) en funcin del tamao corporal de la hembra. El nmero estimado de neonatos en 10 hectreas fue de 1482 y la mortalidad de embriones fue de 7.2%. Despus del nacimiento la mortalidad promedio fue superior al 55% de una clase de edad a la siguiente. La tasa de mortalidad fue menor para la clase de machos adultos I (53.8%) y la ms alta para la clase de machos adultos II (89.0%), por debajo slo del 100% de mortalidad que alcanzan los adultos IV (la clase final). La tabla de vida de la poblacin indica una curva de sobrevivencia de tipo IV de Slobodkin, con la ms alta mortalidad en las clases de edad ms jvenes y con un crecimiento poblacional (tasa neta reproductiva) cercana a 1.00. El tiempo promedio generacional para esta poblacin fue de 1.09 aos. Este es el primer estudio sobre la dinamica poblacional de esta especie.
30055404|Pocket gophers have been considered as both serious pests to management of natural resources and critically important to the function of ecosystems. Assessments of their positive and negative impacts have relied largely on population density and behavior. However, 100 reported estimates of pocket gopher density from 32 published studies varied 415-fold from low to high density, and much of this variation can be explained by the 1,000-fold range in spatial extent of study area. Unlike mammalian carnivores, however, body mass explained a significant portion of the variation in density, even after adjusting density by size of the study area. Nearly all variation in density can be explained by study area and female body mass estimated at the corresponding study site. Residual variation in density differed significantly but not substantially among categories of dominant vegetation and land use, and among species. Pocket gopher density is spatially dependent, and therefore should not be compared among species, populations, or localities without defining the estimate to spatial scale. Further research across large areas and a range of conditions will be required to fully understand the factors that influence distribution and abundance of gophers. /// Las tuzas han sido consideradas serias plagas al manejo de los recursos naturales tanto como crticamente importantes para la funcin de los ecosistemas. Valoraciones de su impacto positivo y negativo han confiado grandemente en la densidad poblacional, tanto como en su comportamiento. Sin embargo, 100 estimaciones de la densidad de las tuzas registradas en 32 estudios publicados variaron en un rango de 415 veces de baja a alta densidad, y mucha de esta variacin puede ser explicada por el rango de 1000 veces en extencin espacial del rea de estudio. Contrario a los mamferos carnvoros, sin embargo, la masa corporal explic una porcin significativa de la variacin en la densidad, aun despus de ajustar la densdad por el tamao del rea de estudio. Casi toda la variacin en densidad puede ser explicada por el rea de estudio y la masa estimada del cuerpo de las hembras en el sitio de estudio correspondiente. La variacin residual en densidad difiri significativamente pero no substancialmente entre las categoras de vegetacin dominante y uso de la tierra, ni tampoco entre especies. La densidad de las tuzas es espacialmente dependiente, y por lo tanto no debe ser comparada entre especies, poblaciones, ni localidades sin definir la estimacin a la escala espacial. Ms investigaciones a travs de reas grandes y rango de condiciones sern requeridas para entender completamente los factores que influyen la distribucin y abundancia de las tuzas.
30055405|Prey items were found outside of welded-wire cage traps containing island fox pups (Urocyon littoralis) on 24 occasions and outside of traps containing adult foxes on 11 occasions. Prey items included mice, lizards, and birds. Island fox pups were observed foraging with adults and were caught with adults in the same trap on 22 occasions. We believe fox pups receive extended parental care and were provisioned while in the traps. /// En 24 ocasiones se encontraron restos de presas afuera de trampas jaulas-de alambre soldado, en cuyo interior haban cachorros de zorros isleos (Urocyon littoralis) atrapados. Asimismo, en otras 11 ocasiones se encontraron estos mismos tipos de presas afuera de trampas que contenan zorros adultos atrapados. Los citados restos incluan presas tales como ratones, lagartijas y aves. Los cachorros de zorros isleos han sido observados buscando alimentos junto con los adultos y en 22 ocasiones fueron atrapados juntos en la misma trampa. Creemos que los cachorros reciben cuidado de los padres por un prolongado perodo de tiempo y que los adultos se encargan de alimentar a los cachorros mientras estos permanecen en las trampas.
30055418|Aerial photographs from 1935 and 1991 were used in an analysis of vegetation change in the Negrito Creek watershed of southwestern New Mexico. Vegetation maps interpreted from aerial photographs were digitized and analyzed in a Geographic Information System to derive a transition matrix used to quantify past changes and project potential future changes. Vegetation-change data were compared with land-use and climate histories to provide background information for land-management activities. Photographs demonstrated a significant shift from open-structured vegetation in 1935 to high canopy-cover woodlands and forests in 1991. In 1935, less than 50% of the study area consisted of woodlands and forests with canopy cover greater than 40%; by 1991, that figure had increased to over 80%. Dramatic changes occurred on gently sloping mesas where relatively dense stands of Juniperus deppeana replaced former grasslands and juniper savannas, and on mountain slopes where increases in Pinus ponderosa resulted in the loss of former pine savannas and open montane coniferous forests. During the 56-year period, grasslands and juniper savannas decreased from a combined 15% of the study area to less than 2%. If past trends continue, by the year 2047 less than 9% of the study area will consist of open woodlands and forests; grasslands and savannas will account for less than 0.5%. Historic changes appear to have resulted from the combined effects of livestock grazing, fire suppression, and climatic fluctuations, and have several implications for management. /// Se usaron fotografas areas de 1935 a 1991 en un anlisis de los cambios de vegetacin en la cuenca "Negrito Creek" del suroeste de Nuevo Mxico. Los mapas de vegetacin interpretados de las fotografas areas fueron digitalizados y analizados en un Sistema de Informacin Geogrfica (GIS) para derivar una matriz transisional usada para cuantificar los cambios en el pasado y para proyectar los posibles cambios en el futuro. Los datos del cambio de la vegetacin fueron comparados con el uso de la tierra y el registro del clima para obtener informacin bsica de las actividades del manejo de la tierra. Las fotografas demostraron un cambio significativo de vegetacin rala en 1935 a montes y bosques con una cubierta de copas altas en 1991. En 1935, menos del 50% del rea estudiada consista de montes y bosques con cubierta de copa alta de ms del 40%; para 1991, esa figura se haba incrementado a ms del 80%. Los dramticos cambios ocurran en las mesas de suaves pendientes donde relativamente densos grupos de Juniperus deppeana reemplazaron los antigos pastos y las savanas de enebro, y en las pendientes de las montaas donde los aumentos de Pinus ponderosa provocaron la prdida de las antigas savanas de pino y bosques de coniferas de monte abierto. Durante el perodo de los 56 aos, la combinacin de los pastos y las savanas de enebro disminuy del 15% del rea de estudio a menos del 2%. Si las tendencias del pasado continan, para el ao 2047 menos del 9% del rea de estudio consistir de montes y bosques abiertos; los pastos y las savanas sern menos de 0.5%. Los cambios histricos parecen ser el resultado de los efectos combinados de pastoreo de ganado, supresin de fuego, y fluctuaciones climticas, y tienen varias implicaciones para el manejo de la tierra.
30055419|A new species of pseudoscorpion, Albiorix anophthalmus, is described from Arkenstone Cave, Pima Co., Arizona. It is highly modified for life in the cave, being larger and more slender than any other known species in the genus and the only known species without eyes. Descriptions of the epigean (surface) and hypogean (cave) environments are provided. Observations on the biology and ecology of A. anophthalmus also are presented. /// Se describe una nueva especie de pseudoescorpin, Albionx anophthalmus, de la cueva Arkenstone, del condado Pima en Arizona. Es una especie altamente modificada para vivir en cuevas ya que es ms grande y ms delgada que cualquier otra especie de su gnero y es la nica especie conocida sin ojos. Se proporcionan descripciones de los ambientes epigeos (superficie) e hipogeos (cueva). Se presentan tambin observaciones sobre la biologa y ecologa de A. anophthalmus.
30055420|We surveyed streams within a broad portion of the northern range of Rio Grande sucker (Catostomus plebeius) to assess factors associated with the species' diet and abundance. We also examined potential interplay between habitat, food availability, and dietary overlap with the nonnative white sucker (Catostomus commersoni). Rio Grande sucker and white sucker primarily consumed periphyton, resulting in high diet overlap. Amount of fine sediment in streams was negatively related to abundance (catch per effort) and condition of Rio Grande sucker. Condition of Rio Grande sucker was negatively related to white sucker catch per effort, and abundance of Rio Grande sucker was significantly lower in streams with white sucker. We suggest that the high degree of diet overlap between the two sucker species may be ecologically important. /// Examinamos varios arroyos dentro de una porcin amplia del rango norte del matalote del Bravo (Catostomus plebeius) para evaluar los factores asociados con la dieta y la abundancia de la especie. Tambin examinamos la interaccin potencial entre el hbitat, la disponibilidad del alimento, y la superposicin alimenticia con el matalote blanco (Catostomus commersoni) no nativo. El matalote del Bravo y el matalote blanco consumieron principalmente perifitn, resultando en un alto nivel de superposicin alimenticia. La cantidad de sedimentos finos en arroyos fue relacionada negativamente con la abundancia (captura por esfuerzo) y la condicin del matalote del Bravo. La condicin del matalote del Bravo fue negativamente relacionada con la captura por esfuerzo del matalote blanco, y la abundancia del matalote del Bravo fue significativamente ms baja en los arroyos con el matalote blanco. Sugerimos que el alto grado de superposicin alimenticia entre las dos especies de matalotes puede ser importante ecolgicamente.
30055421|The native range of White Sands pupfish (Cyprinodon tularosa) included aquatic habitats within the basin of Pleistocene Lake Otero, which reached a maximum stand of at least 1,250 m, and perennial streams in the lake basin. Ten natural aquatic habitats were found within this native range; three (Salt Creek, Malpais Spring, and Lost River) were occupied by White Sands pupfish. Mound Spring held the only other extant population of White Sands pupfish and was not within the native range. We concluded that only the Salt Creek and Malpais Spring populations were native, based on historic habitat conditions and information on occurrence of pupfish obtained from literature, survey notes, archives, collection records, and interviews. Pupfish were introduced into Mound Spring sometime between 1967, when the spring was excavated, and 1973. We were unable to determine the source population for this stocking. A founding population of ca. 30 pupfish, most likely from Salt Creek, was introduced into Lost River in 1970. Based on our findings, current plans to establish additional populations of White Sands pupfish, with the Mound Spring population as the first priority, should be revised. The Malpais Spring population should be considered for replication at a suitable site within the native range of the species. /// El rango nativo del pez cachorrito White Sands (Cypnnodon tularosa) incluy hbitats acuticos en la cuenca del Lago Otero del Pleistoceno, el cual alcanz una altura mxima de 1250 m, y riachuelos perennes en la cuenca. Se encontraron diez hbitats acuticos naturales dentro de este rango nativo; el pez cachorrito White Sands ocup tres de ellos (Salt Creek, Malpais Springs y Lost River). Mound Spring mantuvo la nica poblacin adicional del pez cachorrito White Sands y no estuvo dentro del rango nativo. Concluimos que slo las poblaciones de Salt Creek y Malpais Spring eran nativas, debido a condiciones histricas del hbitat e informacin sobre la presencia del pez cachorrito proveniente de la literatura, notas de campaa, archivos, registros de colectas y entrevistas. El pez cachorrito fue introducido a Mound Spring aproximadamente entre 1967, cuando el manantial fue excavado, y 1973. Fuimos incapaces de determinar la poblacin original para esta siembra. Una poblacin fundadora del pez cachorrito fue establecida en Lost River en 1970 con aproximadamente 30 individuos quizs de Salt Creek. En base a nuestros resultados, los planes actuales para establecer poblaciones adicionales del pez cachorrito White Sands con la poblacin de Mound Spring como una prioridad, deben ser revisados. Se debe considerar que la poblacin de Malpais Spring sea replicada en un sitio adecuado dentro del rango nativo de la especie.
30055422|Composition and distribution of the continental ichthyofauna of northern Quintana Roo (northeastern Yucatan Peninsula), including the islands of Cozumel and Mujeres, was studied on the basis of museum records and 98 sampled localities. Temperature, salinity / conductivity, transparency, dissolved oxygen, and pH were recorded. Fifty-nine species of fish were detected in the region; 30 of them occur also in the northwestern part of Yucatan, and 46 of them are present in southern Quintana Roo and Belize; at least one is endemic. Cluster analysis allowed distinction of two main fish assemblages, which may be labeled brackish and freshwater. The freshwater assemblage can be further divided into a widespread group and three geographically restricted groups. The inverse analysis depicted four main regions: islands and adjacent (northern) coast, southern lakes and cenotes, inland north, and anchialine freshwater cenotes. Contrary to southern Quintana Roo, where fish distribution is explainable in ecological terms, in northern Quintana Roo fish assemblages are largely historical products. /// Se estudi la composicin y distribucin de la ictiofauna continental del norte de Quintana Roo (la parte noreste de la pennsula de Yucatn), incluyendo las islas de Cozumel y Mujeres, con base en registros de museo y 98 localidades muestreadas. El equipo de pesca fue variable. Se registraron la temperatura, salinidad/conductividad, transparencia, oxgeno disuelto y pH. Se detectaron en la regin 59 especies cticas; de ellas, 30 se presentan tambin en el noroeste de Yucatn y 46 en el sur de Quintana Roo y Belice; por lo menos una es endmica. Por medio de anlisis de agrupamiento se distinguieron dos asociaciones principales de peces, que pueden denominarse salobre y dulceacucola; la dulceacucola puede dividirse a su vez en un grupo de amplia distribucin y otros tres restringidos geogrficamente. El anlisis inverso esboz cuatro regiones principales: islas y costa adyacente (norte), lagos y cenotes del sur, norte tierra adentro, y cenotes anquihalinos de agua dulce. En contraste con el sur de Quintana Roo, donde la distribucin de peces puede explicarse en trminos ecolgicos, en el norte de Quintana Roo las asociaciones cticas son en gran medida productos histricos.
30055423|Burrowing animals fundamentally influence the character of soils, ecosystem function, erosion, and soil management for food production and hazardous wastes. Perhaps the most important indicator of their potential impacts is the average void space created for burrow construction and maintenance per unit area per unit time. We integrated published estimates of burrow volume (m) and excavation rates (m ha- year-) of pocket gophers (Rodentia: Geo-myidae) to assess their reliability in assessment of impacts and whether these variables are scale-dependent. Estimates were difficult to interpret and compare because research goals, assumptions, and methods varied considerably among studies, as did site conditions and reporting of results. Volume of burrows made by various species of pocket gophers averaged 0.68 m, and averages differed significantly between species. Rate of excavation averaged 18 m ha- year- for Geomyidae, and it declined with increasing spatial extent of study area used to make the estimates. Counts of mounds produced the largest estimates of burrow volume and excavation rate, and injection of polyurethane foam into burrows produced low estimates. High variation in estimated rates of burrow excavation indicates the need for further research to characterize magnitude and types of impacts gophers have on natural and managed ecosystems. /// Los animales que escavan madrigueras influyen fundamentalmente el carcter de la tierra, funcin de ecosistemas, erosin, y el manejo de las tierras para la produccin de comida y desperdicios peligrosos. Tal vez el indicador ms importante de su impacto potencial es el promedio de espacio nulo creado por la construccin de madrigueras y mantenimiento por unidad-rea por unidad-tiempo. Integramos estimaciones publicadas del volumen de la madriguera (m) y tasa de excavacin (m ha- yr-) de la tuza (Rodentia: Geomyidae) para evaluar su fiabi-lidad en el valoramiento de impactos y para ver si estas variables son dependientes de escala. Las estimaciones fueron difciles de interpretar y de comparar porque las metas de investigacin, suposiciones y mtodos variaron considerablemente entre estudios, as como las condiciones de los sitios y el reporte de resultados. El volumen de madrigueras hecho por varias especies de tuzas tuvo un promedio de 0.68 m, y los promedios difirieron significativamente entre especies. La tasa de excavacin promedi 18 m ha- yr- para Geomyidae, y declin con el incremento de extencin espacial del rea de estudio usada para hacer las estimaciones. El conteo de los montculos produjo la estimacin ms grande del volumen de madrigueras y la tasa de escavacin, y la inyeccin de espuma de poliuritano en las madrigueras produjo bajas estimaciones. La alta variacin en tasas estimadas de escavacin de madrigueras indica la necesidad de ms investigaciones para caracterizar la magnitud y tipos de impacto que las tuzas tienen en ecosistemas naturales y controlados.
30055424|Two hundred twenty-five observations of melanistic (melanic) deer in 3,875 sightings of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) were made on mobile census lines, driving roadside counts, and stationary blinds from August 1988 to February 1996 in eight counties in central Texas. The highest incidence of melanic deer (21%) at 11 census lines in a region of approximately 8,250
30055425|We examined effects of habitat boundary on small mammals at the White Sands dune complex in the Tularosa Basin of south-central New Mexico from 22 May to 15 July, 1996. The dunes that distinguish White Sands are unique. Their leading edge forms an abrupt boundary where they encroach upon adjacent desert-basin saltbush flat. We live-trapped small mammals on the boundary between and within the White Sands dunes and adjacent saltbush habitats to examine effects of this boundary on distribution, diversity, and movement of small mammals. Chae-todipus penicillatus was captured most frequently within the dunes. Dipodomys ordii tended to be captured less frequently 10 m within the saltbush habitat than elsewhere. Animal movements perpendicular to the dune boundary differed among dune and saltbush habitats for Perognathus flavus and D. ordii even though habitats were similar in vegetative structure and supported an equivalent number of individual small mammals. A behavioral barrier is apparent between habitats along the edge of the White Sands dune boundary. There was no evidence of an edge effect at the spatial scale of our sampling plots. Characteristics of diversity and abundance normally associated with edge effect may not be highly expressed in arid ecosystems. /// Examinamos los efectos de las orillas de hbitats en mamferos pequeos en el complejo de dunas White Sands en la cuenca del Tularosa, regin sur-central de Nuevo Mxico del 22 de mayo al 15 de julio del 1996. Las dunas White Sands son nicas ya que su borde delantero forma un limite abrupto donde infringe sobre el chaparral adyacente. Atrapamos vivos pequeos mamferos en la orilla entre y dentro de las dunas White Sands y los habitats de chaparral adyacentes para examinar los posibles efectos de esta orilla en la distribucin, diversidad, y movimiento de mamferos pequeos. Chaetodipus penicillatus fue el ms frecuentemente capturado dentro de las dunas. Dipodomys ordii tendio a ser capturado con menor frecuencia a 10 m dentro del chaparral que en cualquier otro lugar. Los movimientos perpendiculares de los animales al margen de la duna difirieron entre dunas hbitats y de chaparral para Perognathus flavus y D. ordii a pesar de que los hbitats eran similares en composicin vegetal y sostenan un nmero equivalente de individuos de mamferos pequeos. Aparentemente, existe una barrera de comportamiento entre hbitats a lo largo del margen de las dunas White Sands. No hubo evidencia de un efecto de borde a la escala espacial de las parcelas muestreadas. Las caractersticas de diversidad y abundancia tpicamente asociadas al efecto de borde pueden no ser tan marcadas en ecosistemas ridos.
30055426|Collared peccaries (Pecari tajacu sonorensis) inhabit the tropical deciduous and semi-deciduous forests of Chamela Biological Station on the coast of Jalisco, located in the southernmost part of the geographical distribution of this subspecies. These vegetative communities are different in floristic composition, phenology, aerial biomass, productivity, nutritive value, and root biomass. From 1989 to 1994, I analyzed the variation of herd size of collared peccaries n relation to seasonal and spatial variation of food, cover, water, and predation risk. Number of individuals per herd ranged from 1 to 12, with groups of 1 to 4 individuals being the most common. In tropical semi-deciduous forest peccaries usually formed large herds, but in tropical deciduous forest they most commonly formed small herds. Number of individuals per herd was similar during rainy and dry seasons. Collared peccaries subdivided into small groups to forage in tropical deciduous forest, and aggregated into herds in semi-deciduous tropical forest. Density and herd size of P. t sonorensis in Chamela were more similar to those found in other tropical forests than those in northern arid habitats. Peccaries consumed a high percentage of roots thorough the year. From rainy to dry seasons consumption of low quality roots increased as high quality leaves-branches decreased. During the dry season, variation in fruit production and rate of fruit fall support different herd sizes. /// El pecar de collar (Pecari tajacu sonorensis) habita en los bosques tropicales caduci-folios y subperennifolios de la Estacin Biolgica "Chamela" en la costa de Jalisco, localizada en la parte ms surea de la distribucin geogrfica de esta subespecie. Estas comunidades vegetativas son diferentes en su composicin floristica, fenologa, biomasa area, productividad, valor nutritivo y biomasa de raz. Se analiza la variacin del tamao de las manadas del pecari de collar en relacin a los cambios estacionales y espaciales del alimento, cobertura, agua y riesgo de depredacin durante el perodo 1989 a 1994. El nmero de individuos por manada vari de 1 a 12, siendo los grupos de 1 a 4 individuos los ms comunes. En el bosque tropical subeperennifolio los pecaries formaban manadas grandes, mientras que en el caducifolio comunmente formaban manadas pequeas. El nmero de individuos por manada fue similar entre las pocas de lluvia y la seca. El pecari de collar se dividi en pequeos grupos para pastar en el bosque tropical caducifolio, y se reunieron en manadas en el bosque tropical subperennifolio. En Chamela, la abundancia y el tamao de las manadas de P. t. sonorensis fueron ms similares a lo encontrado en otros bosques tropicales que lo reportado para zonas ridas norteas. Los pecaries consumen altos porcentajes de races durante todo el ao. De la poca de lluvias a la poca seca, el consumo de races de baja calidad se increment mientras que disminuy el consumo de hojas y ramas de alta calidad. Durante la poca seca la variacin en la produccin de frutos y la tasa de cada de frutos, sostienen manadas de diferente tamao.
30055427|Se colectaron muestras a varias profundidades para determinar los cambios temporales y los efectos de operacin de la presa sobre la composicin y abundancia de macroinvertebrados a la deriva en la columna de agua, a la salida de la Presa Glen Canyon, en el Ro Colorado, Arizona. Gammarus lacustris y quironmidos fueron los macroinvertebrados ms predominantes a la deriva y la abundancia media de quironmidos excedi a la de los anfpodos. La abundancia de Gammarus alcanz su pico durante la parte descendiente de la curva hidrogrfica diaria. En el curso del ao, los adultos y juveniles de Gammarus exhibieron patrones temporales ms o menos iguales y alcanzaron su abundancia mxima durante el verano y el invierno. La abundancia de quironmidos no vari en funcin de la descarga de la presa. La mayora de las larvas y pupas de quironmidos fue colectada durante la primavera, mientras que la mayora de los adultos fue colectada durante la primavera e invierno. De esta manera, sugerimos que los cambios temporales y la manera de operar la presa, de manera conjunta influyen la dinmica de los macroinvertebrados a la deriva en la columna de agua.
30055428|Dos especies de esponjas de aqua dulce, Dosilia radiospiculata y Ephydatia muelleri, fueron recolectadas en el condado de Maricopa en Arizona. Estos especmenes representan el primer registro verificado del filum Porifera en el estado. D. radiospiculata y E. muelleri fueron recolectadas en el zoolgico de Phoenix, en Phoenix, Arizona, el 10 de julio de 1995 con colectas subsecuentes de D. radiospiculata el 6 de diciembre de 1995. D. radiospiculata fue tambin recolectada el 13 de enero de 1996 en Apache Lake, Arizona. Espculas de las especies montadas en porta objetos fueron utilizadas en la identificacion de los dos especies.
30055429|El reporte de Branchinecta paludosa (Miiller, 1788) por Maynard (1976) ha sido confirmado con la identificacin vlida de especmenes de esa localidad. Han habido ciertas dudas anteriormente debido al parecido entre dos especies no descritas y la ausencia de los especmenes de Utah. Material "voucher," identificado por D. Belk, est ahora en el National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institute, bajo catlogo nmero USNM 260801.
30055430|Arroz texano silvestre (Zizania texana) es una planta acutica que ocurre solamente en la parte superior de San Marcos River, Hays Co., USA, y su sobrevivencia est en peligro. Consecuentemente, algunas cepas han sido retenidas en San Marcos National Fish Hatchery and Technology Center (SMNFHTC), Hays Co., Texas, desde mayo de 1996. En 1996 y otra vez en 1997, larvas y crislidas de Parapoynx obsculralis fueron encontradas en hojas sumergidas de arroz texano silvestre en el SMNFHTC. Tambin se encontraron algunas larvas en hojas sumergidas de arroz texano silvestre en el San Marcos River en 1996. No creemos que P. obsculralis es actualmente un herbvoro gravemente destructivo de arroz texano silvestre en el San Marcos River. Sin embargo, este herbvoro puede convertirse en un problema para las cepas cultivadas.
30055431|Huevos y larvas de Etheostoma grahami fueron examinados mediante caractersticas mersticas, morfomtricas y de pigmentacin. Individuos reproductivos fueron obtenidos del Arroyo Margaritas en Santiago, Nuevo Len, Mxico. E. grahami deposita huevos esfricos translcidos con dimetro de 1.59-1.81 mm. La larva eclociona a 4.8-5.1 mm TL, el saco vitelino representa el 27.4% TL. La larva recin eclocionada presenta un grupo de melanforos redondos en la parte superior de la cabeza y el saco vitelino presenta en la lnea ventral un grupo de melanforos estrellados. Tres lneas de melanforos pueden ser apreciadas en cada lado del cuerpo. Presenta 14 miomeros preanales y 18  19 miomeros postanales. Las caractersticas de la forma juvenil aparecen a 11.1 mm TL. Este estudio proporciona informacin til para comparar poblaciones aisladas de E. grahami y para comparar a otras especies relacionadas, por ejemplo las dos recientemente descritas de Cuatro Cienegas, Coahuila.
30055432|Este estudio documenta los efectos de una inundacin rcord en distribuciones del charalito del Gila nativo (Gila intermedia) y el robalo verde no nativo (Lepomis cyanellus) y el guayacn mosquito del oeste (Gambusia affinis) en el Sabino Creek en Arizona. Mientras que el promedio diario de la descarga de agua en el Sabino Creek durante todos los aos anteriores a la inundacin fue de 0.4
30055433|En este trabajo se analizaron los daos causados por las metacercarias del tremtodo Centrocestus formosanus a la carpa herbvora Ctenopharyngodon idella. Para ello se estimaron los cambios en la respuesta respiratoria de los peces. Se realizaron experimentos tanto en organismos que presentaron una infeccin en forma natural, como en organismos infectados artificialmente. En ambos grupos, la presencia de las metacercarias en el tejido branquial provoc un decremento en la tasa respiratoria de las carpas, to cual indica una disminucin en el estado de salud de los peces infectados.
30055434|Resumimos las causas del fracaso de anidar en el ave papamoscas sauce del sudoeste en dos lugares distintos cerca del Ro Grande, en Nuevo Mxico, entre los aos 1994 y 1997. Nos enfocamos en los efectos del flujo bajo del Ro Grande durante la temporada de anidar en 1996. En Velarde, donde el agua se mantuvo en el ro durante 1996 y 1997, todos los intentos de anidar fracasaron debido a la depredacin o al parasitismo. En San Marcial, las aves papamoscas anidaron en por to menos cinco territorios en 1994 y 1995, pero slo un par intent anidar en 1996. Sugerimos que las aves papamoscas no intentaron anidar en San Marcial en 1996 porque no haba agua en el ro durante la mayora de la temporada de anidar. Tambin, cinco machos territoriales se mantuvieron desparejados en 1996 y en 1997, indicando que la inhabilidad de los machos por adquirir parejas puede ser otro factor que afecta el xito de reproduccin en San Marcial. Las mltiples amenazas al xito reproductivo, y la variacin en su importancia entre sitios y aos, presentan un problema de preservacion complejo y desafiante.
30055435|Se aporta informacin para 11 especies de mamferos del estado de Michoacn, sobre distribucin, medidas, aspectos reproductores y hbitat. Siete especies son nuevos registros y representan el 4.3% de las 163 especies conocidas. Peropteryx macrotis y Glossophaga commissarisi amplan su distribucin en aproximadamente 400 km. Las localidades de captura de Glossophaga leachii demuestran que tiene una amplia distribucin en el centro-sur del estado. Cuatro registros se basan en un especimen, to que muestra que an es poco to que se conoce sobre los mamferos de este estado.
30055436|Un anlisis electrofortico de 25 loci fu conducido en 137 venados mulas (Odocoileus hemionus) para obtener informacin bsica con respecto a la variacin gentica en una poblacin que se mantuvo en un lugar cerrado del Rocky Mountain Arsenal (RMA) durante cuatro aos. Las medidas de variacin gentica, incluyendo la heterozigosidad promedio (6.5%), el porcentaje de loci polimrficos (28.0%), y el nmero medio de alelos por locus (1.32), fueron similares a los valores reportados en la literatura para poblaciones silvestres de venado mula. Adems, no hubo evidencia de hibridacin entre el venado mula y el venado cola blanca (O. virginianus) que viven en el lugar cerrado. Aunque nuestros hallazgos demuestran que la variabilidad gentica de la poblacin fundadora de RMA es relativamente alta, el aislamiento de esta poblacin sugiere que un manejo cuidadoso es necessario para el mantenimiento de la variabilidad genetica a largo plazo.
30055437|De acuerdo a la literatura, la rata canguro californiana (Dipodomys californicus) vive en el norte del estado de california y en regiones adjacentes al centro-sur del estado Oregon. En este reporte presentamos la primera evidencia de la existencia de Dispodomys califonicus en el noroeste del estado de Nevada.
30055438|Resportamos la segunda segunda captura, y el registro ms austral del estado de Louisiana, de Lasionycteris noctivagans. Este murcilago, un adulto femenino, fue atrapado el 3 de febrero 1997 con una red de malla sobre la rama este de Six Mile Creek en el Vernon Ranger District de Kisatchie National Forest en el centro-oeste de Louisiana. Los registros de Louisiana y del este de Texas indican que la especie no es muy abundante y est dispersa. Parece que los murcilagos de esta especie llegan en el atoo y se quedan hasta el principio de la primavera.
30055219|Levels of genetic diversity in the rare endemics Ruth's milkweed, Asclepias ruthiae, and San Juan milkweed, A. sanjuanensis, were examined using isozyme electrophoresis. Both species maintain less genetic variation, as measured by isozyme polymorphisms, than other milkweeds, but are comparable to the average values reported for other endemics. Estimates of total genetic diversity (
30055220|The exotic tree, Russian-olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia L.), is an invader of riparian zones and grasslands throughout the plains and western United States. We compared the rate of litter decomposition and nitrogen loss from foliage of this species and the native cottonwood, {Populus deltoides Marshall). Nitrogen concentrations of foliage of the nitrogen-fixing Russian-olive were initially much higher than cottonwood. Using new litter and litter allowed to overwinter in the field before being placed in litterbags, Russian-olive lost 42 to 58% of initial mass over a 224 day interval and cottonwood lost 29 to 38% of initial mass (P < 0.001). Foliage litter of cottonwood initially functions as a nitrogen sink, removing nitrogen from the environment. Over the study period, cottonwood lost 0.3 g nitrogen (N) for every 100 grams of new litter. In contrast, Russian-olive lost 1.4 g N for every 100 g of new litter (P < 0.01). These nitrogen contributions of Russian-olive foliage to soils may facilitate invasion by other exotic plant species. /// El rbol extico, olivo ruso (Elaeagnus angustifolia L.), es un invasor de zonas ripcolas y pastizales de las planicies y del oeste de los Estados Unidos. Comparamos la tasa de descomposicin de la hojarasca y la prdida de nitrgeno del follage de esta especie, y del rbol nativo, lamo de Virginia {Populus deltoides Marshall). Las concentraciones de nitrgeno del follage del olivo ruso, que es un fijador de nitrgeno, fueron inicialmente ms altas que las del lamo. Usando hojarasca nueva y hojarasca que pas el invierno en el campo antes de ser colocada en bolsas de basura, el olivo ruso perdi de 42 a 58% de su masa inicial durante un intervalo de 224 das mientras que el lamo perdi de 29 a 38% de su masa inicial (P < 0.001). La hojarasca del lamo inicialmente funciona como un depsito de nitrgeno, removiendo nitrgeno del ambiente. Durante el perodo de estudio, el lamo perdi 0.3 g N por cada 100 gramos de hojarasca nueva. En contraste, el olivo ruso perdi 1.4 g N por cada 100 gramos de hojarasca nueva (P < 0.01). Estas contribuciones de nitrgeno del follage del olivo ruso al suelo pueden facilitar la invasin de otras especies de plantas exticas.
30055221|A comparative vegetation analysis of an island-wide transect of South Padre Island, Texas, was conducted in 1997 using aerial multispectral digital videography and line intercept ground truth techniques to assess the usefulness of videography in estimating vegetative cover and species identifications. Ground truth data were used to assess vegetative change occurring in the 20 years since the report of Judd et al. (1977) on the vegetation of South Padre Island. Estimates of total cover by ground truth and remote sensing techniques were similar (2.45% difference) on South Padre Island. Thus, airborne multispectral digital videography is an effective technique for assessing changes in total vegetative cover of Texas barrier islands. This technique will be an effective tool for documenting changes in total cover on barrier islands due to natural perturbations such as hurricanes and human disturbances including vehicular traffic. Imagery obtained at altitudes of 200 m or greater did not permit discrimination of dominant species in each of an island's topographic zones. However, acquisition of imagery at a time of the year when dominant species are in specific phenological stages, such as flowering, and at a lower altitude may facilitate their recognition. Comparison of data from a single trans-island transect in 1997 with data from three trans-island transects and 18 transects across the foreshore, backshore, and primary dunes in 1977 suggests that there has been a marked decrease in species richness of the backshore and primary dune zones of South Padre Island. There also was a change in dominant species in the backshore zone. These changes in species richness and dominance may be largely attributable to vehicular traffic in these zones. /// Un anlisis comparativo de la vegetacin de un transecto transinsular de la isla South Padre en el estado de Texas fue realizado en 1997 usando videografa area multiesprectral digital y tcnicas de validacin de intercepcin linear terrestre para evaluar la utilidad de la videografa en la estimacin de la cobertura vegetal e identificacin de especies. Los datos de estudios de validacin terrestre fueron utilizados para evaluar el cambio vegetativo que ocurri durante 20 aos despus del informe de Judd et al (1977) sobre la vegetacin de la isla South Padre. Las estimaciones de la cobertura total mediante tcnicas de validacin terrestres y de medicin remota fueron similares (2.45% de diferencia) en la isla South Padre. Por lo tanto, la videografa multiesprectral digital area se considera una tcnica eficaz para evaluar cambios en la cobertura vegetal de las islas barrera de Texas. Esta tcnica ser una herramienta efectiva para documentar los cambios de cobertura total en las islas barrera debido a las perturbaciones naturales tales como huracanes y disturbios humanos como trfico vehicular. Las imgenes obtenidas en altitudes de 200 metros o mayores no permitieron la discriminacin de las especies dominantes de las varias zonas topogrficas de una isla. Sin embargo, la adquisicin de imgenes de una poca del ao en que las especies dominantes estn en etapas fenolgicas especficas, tales como la floracin, y desde una altitud menor, puede facilitar su reconocimiento. Al comparar datos de un transecto transinsular de 1977 con los de tres transectos transinsulares y de 18 transectos correspondientes a la parte frontal, trasera, y de las dunas primarias de la isla en 1977, se sugiere que ha habido una marcada disminucin en la riqueza de especies en la parte trasera y en la zona de dunas primarias de la isla South Padre. Tambin hubo un cambio de especies dominantes en la zona trasera. Estos cambios en la riqueza y dominancia de especies pueden ser atribuidos en gran parte al trfico vehicular en estas zonas.
30055222|Seeds (achenes) of Palafoxia callosa from central Texas were dormant at maturity in late summer, and stratification was a pre-requisite for germination. With an increase in length of the stratification period at 5C from 2 to 8 weeks, the minimum thermoperiod at which 50% of seeds germinated decreased from 30(12 h)/15(12 h)C to 15/6C. Seeds germinated to 94 and 93% in light (14-h daily photoperiod) at 15/6 and 20/10C, respectively, after 12 weeks (2,016 h) at 5C in light. Seeds stratified for 12 weeks in darkness germinated to 42 and 55% in darkness at 15/6 and 20/10C, respectively. However, seeds kept continuously at 15/6C in light for 14 weeks (total of 1,176 h at 6C) germinated to 95%. After 12 weeks of dry storage under ambient laboratory conditions, the highest germination in light and in darkness was 19% (at 30/l5C) and 8% (at 20/10C), respectively. An overlap between the minimum temperature at which seeds can germinate and habitat temperatures would occur in late January or early February in central Texas. Germination in winter ensures that seedlings are well-established before the onset of summer drought in the shallow, rocky limestone soils of its habitat. /// Semillas (aquenioss) de Palafoxia callosa del centro de Texas, estuvieron latentes en la madurez a fines del verano, y estratificacin fue un prerequisito para la germinacin. Con un incremento en la duracin del perodo de estratificacion a 5C de 2 a 8 semanas, el mnimo perodo trmico al que 50% de las semillas germinaron disminuy de 30(12 h)/15(12 h)C. Las semillas germinaron a 94 y 93% en luz (14-h fotoperiodo diario) a 15/6 y 20/10C, respectivamente, despus de 12 semanas (2,016 h) a 5C en luz. Semillas estratificadas 12 semanas en la oscuridad germinaron a 42 y 55% en la oscuridad a 15/6 y 20/10C, respectivamente. Sin embargo, semillas mantenidas continuamente a en la luz por 14 semanas (un total de 1,176 h a 6C) germinaron a 95%. Despus de 12 semanas de almacenamiento bajo condiciones ambientales de laboratorio, la ms alta germinacin en luz y en oscuridad fue 19% (a 30/15C) y 8% (a 20/10C), respectivamente. La superimposicin entre la temperatura mnima a la que las semillas pueden germinar y las temperaturas del hbitat ocurre a fines de enero y principios de febrero en el centro de Texas. La germinacin en el invierno asegura que la plntula est bien establecida antes del comienzo de la sequa del verano en los suelos no profundos, rocosos y calisos de su hbitat.
30055223|I examined ant communities in flooded and unflooded areas of the mature cottonwood {Populus deltoides) riparian zone along two reaches of the Rio Grande in central New Mexico. I surveyed five flooded and five unflooded sites in Belen and one unflooded and two flooded sites in Socorro by baiting and pitfall trapping in summer and early autumn of 1995. Paired bait plates with both a fatty protein (tuna) and a carbohydrate (sugar water) were set out on the ground on mornings immediately after flood subsidence and repeated 6 weeks later. Pitfall traps were set out for 48 h once midway between baiting dates. A total of 20 species were observed and collected during the study, including one new species for New Mexico, Pheidole pinealis. Overall, four diurnal species were common in the study area. Lasius pallitarsis and Formica pallidefulva were most abundant in unflooded sites, whereas Tapinoma sessile and Crematogaster mormonum were more common in flooded sites. Crematogaster mormonum was the only species found at all sites. Species richness was higher at unflooded sites than at flooded sites in the Belen reach. Disturbance from flooding appears to have an effect on distribution of observed ant species in the Rio Grande Bosque. /// A lo largo del Ro Grande, en zonas de lamos maduros ribereos {Populus deltoides) localizados en la demarcacin central de Nuevo Mxico, examin comunidades de hormigas tanto en parajes inundados como no inundados. Inspeccion cinco lugares inundados y otros tantos no inundados en Beln y una rea no inundada y dos inundadas en Socorro, instalando cebos y trampas de hoyos en el verano y a principios de otoo de 1995. Los cebos en pares, uno con protena grasa (atn) y uno con carbohidratos (agua azucarada) se colocaron en la tierra en las maanas inmediatamente despus del cese de la inundacin y se repiti el mismo procedimiento seis semanas ms tarde. Las trampas se situaron durante 48 horas una vez a medio camino entre las fechas de poner el cebo. Un total de veinte especies fue observado y recogido durante el estudio, incluyendo una especie nueva en Nuevo Mxico, Pheidole pinealis. En total, cuatro especies diurnas fueron frecuentes en la zona de estudio. Lasius pallitarsis y Formica pallidefulva abundaron ms en lugares no inundados, mientras que Tapinoma sessile y Crematogaster mormonum fueron ms comunes en sitios inundados. Crematogaster mormonum fue la nica especie encontrada en todos los lugares. En el rea de Beln, la riqueza de especies fue ms alta en lugares no inundados que en los inundados. El disturbio causado por inundaciones parece afectar la distribucin de las especies de hormigas observadas en el Bosque Ro Grande.
30055224|A proposed desalinization project that would affect the entire upper Red River basin, Oklahoma-Texas, would, if completed, raise the possibility of invasion by red shiner, Cyprinella lutrensis, into stream reaches from which it has been restricted by naturally high salinity. Because introduced red shiners are known to impact native fish communities, we asked if red shiner could have an adverse effect on Red River pupfish, Cyprinodon rubrofluviatilis, which typically occurs in reaches of the Red River with high salinity. In an array of artificial streams we examined effects of red shiner on survival, condition, and reproduction of Red River pupfish. In the presence of red shiner, pupfish successfully produced larvae, but fewer juvenile pupfish survived to potentially recruit. /// Un proyecto propuesto de desalinizacin que afectara a toda la cuenca del Red River superior, Oklahoma-Texas, aumentara, si es completado, la posibilidad de una invasin de la sardinita roja, Cyprnella lutrensis, en riachuelos en donde no ha estado por una salinidad naturalmente alta. Preguntamos si la sardinita roja podra occasionar un efecto negativo sobre el pez cachorito del Red River, Cyprnodon rubrofluviatilis, ya que la sardinita roja introducida suele impactar las communidades naturales de peces. Cyprnodon rubrofluviatilis tipicamente se encuentra en las cuencas del Red River con alta salinidad. Examinamos los efectos de la sardinita roja en la supervivencia, condicin y reproducin del pez cachorito del Red River en una serie de riachuelos artificiales. En presencia de la sardinita roja, el pez cachorito produjo larvas con xito pero menos juveniles del pez cachorito sobrevivieron para su posible reproduccin.
30055225|We evaluated spawning movements, home range size, reproductive timing, gonad development, and fecundity from capture/recapture of hardhead (Mylopharodon conocephalus) and Sacramento squawfish {Ptychocheilus grandis) in Pine Creek, Tehama Co., California. A total of 322 hardhead and 77 Sacramento squawfish were tagged between February 1991 and June 1992, and of these 138 hardhead were recaptured 249 times and 37 Sacramento squawfish were recaptured 56 times during the study. We estimated home range size to be 289 m for hardhead and 199 m for Sacramento squawfish. Most of the fish moved during the study, but movement was not detected for 34% of recaptured hardhead and 49% of recaptured Sacramento squawfish. Most movement was associated with spawning; movement rates increased dramatically in spring (late April and early May) when both species apparently spawned in the study site. Individual hardhead and Sacramento squawfish moved either upstream or downstream before spawning, when they formed mixed species aggregations, and then dispersed either upstream or downstream after spawning. Some fish made spawning movements (either upstream or downstream) and then returned to their home pool after spawning. We did not observe spawning, but two pre-spawning aggregations in the study site in 1992 and a gonadosomatic index suggested that spawning likely occurred in late April to early May for both species. Fecundities ranged from 7,100 to 23,900 eggs for hardhead and from 15,200 to 21,600 eggs for Sacramento squawfish. Eggs apparently required 15 months to develop. Small tributary streams provide important spawning and adult habitats. /// Se evaluaron los movimientos de desove, tamao de rango de hogar, fenologa de reproduccin, desarrollo de gnadas y fecundidad a partir de la captura/recaptura de Mylopharodon conocephalus y Ptychocheilus grandis en Pine Creek, Condado de Tehama, California. Un total de 322 Mylopharodon y 77 Ptychocheilus fueron etiquetados de febrero de 1991 a junio de 1992, y de estos, 138 Mylopharodon fueron recapturados 249 veces y 37 Ptychocheilus fueron recapturados 56 veces durante el estudio. El tamao de rango de hogar fue estimado en 289 m para Mylopharodon y 199 m para Ptychochdlus. La mayor parte de los peces tuvieron movimiento durante el estudio, aunque no se detect movimiento en 34% y 49% de Mylopharodon y Ptychocheilus recapturados, respectivamente. Casi todo el movimiento estuvo asociado al desove. El movimiento se increment notablemente en la primavera (fines de abril y principios de mayo), cuando ambas especies aparentemente desovaron en el rea de estudio. Los individuos de Mylopharodon y Ptychocheilus se desplazaron ro arriba o ro abajo antes de desovar, formando entonces agregados de ambas especies, para despus dispersarse ro arriba o ro abajo luego de desovar. Algunos peces tuvieron movimientos de desove (ya sea ro arriba o ro abajo) y posteriormente retornaron a su pozo natal luego de desovar. El desove no se observ, pero dos agregaciones pre-desove en el rea de estudio en 1992 y un ndice gonadosomtico indicaron que el desove probablemente se llev a cabo de finales de abril a principios de mayo en ambas especies. La fecundidad vari de 7,100 a 23,900 huevos en Mylopharodon P de 15,200 a 21,600 huevos en Ptychochdlus, con un perodo de desarrollo de los huevos de aproximadamente 15 meses. Los resultados sugieren que los pequeos arroyos tributarios proveen habitats importantes para el desove y para la vida de los adultos.
30055226|In the arid southwestern United States, populations of native cavity-nesting birds are threatened by urbanization, degradation of riparian vegetation, and competition from exotic species. Unfortunately, little quantitative information exists on the population parameters or habitat associations of these species. From 1994 to 1996, we conducted surveys for two secondary cavity-nesters of the Sonoran Desert, the elf owl (Micrathene whitneyi) and the western screech-owl {Otus kennicottii). We used surveys to estimate each species' relative abundance, examine owl-habitat relationships, and determine if owl abundance was related to reproductive success. Abundance of elf owls did not differ among years (P = 0.59) and was greater than abundance of western screech-owls each year. Abundance of western screech-owls declined each year of the study (P < 0.0001). Abundance of elf owls was positively correlated with abundance of western screech-owls (r = 0.46, P < 0.001) and common poorwills, Phalaenoptilus nuttalliis (r = 0.33, P < 0.01). Abundance of elf owls was positively associated (R
30055227|New records of mammals are reported for Jujuy Province, Argentina. These include one species of armadillo, three species of bats, two species and one subspecies of rodents, one species of carnivore, and one species of primate. We also expand the known distribution and confirm the presence of four additional species of bats and one rodent for the province. We report data on distribution, external and cranial measurements, and natural history for each taxon. Excluded from the fauna of Jujuy are Myotis levis (Chiroptera) and Reithrodon auritus (Rodentia), due to previous misidentification of specimens cited in the literature. /// Se reportan nuevos registros de mamferos para la provincia Jujuy en Argentina. Estos incluyen una especie de armadillo, tres especies de murcilagos, dos especies y una subespecie de roedores, una especie de Carnivora y una de Primates. Adems, extiende la distribucin y se confirma la presencia de cuatro especies ms de murcilagos y una ms de roedor en la provincia. Se aportan datos sobre la distribucin, medidas externas y craneales e historia natural de cada una de las especies. Se excluye de la fauna jujea Myotis levis (Chiroptera) y Reithrodon auritus (Rodentia), por previa identificacin errnea de los ejemplares citados en la literatura.
30055228|Pitfall trap surveys at 13 sites in southern Arizona yielded 30 Sorex arizonae at nine sites, 13 S. monticolus at two sites, and one Notiosorex crawfordi. Sorex arizonae occupies well-vegetated mesic canyons, but is either negatively associated or not associated with surface water within riparian corridors. Capture rates and occurrence of S. arizonae relative to surface water did not vary systematically with elevation. Captures were common during rainy periods. We review the conservation status of Sorex arizonae. /// Estudios con trampas de hoyos en 13 sitios en el sur de Arizona capturaron 30 Sorex arizonae en nueve sitios, 13 S. monticolus en dos sitios, y 1 Notiosorex crawfordi. Sorex arizonae ocupa barrancas hmedas con bastante vegetacin, pero est asociado negativamente o no asociadado con agua superficial en zonas ribereas. Tasa de captura y presencia de S. arizonae relativas al agua superficial no variaron sistemticamente con elevacin. Capturas fueron comunes durante pocas de lluvias. Revisamos el estado de S. arizonae en cuanto a su conservacin.
30055229|A mist-netting survey conducted in Big Bend National Park, Brewster Co., Texas, during 1996 and 1997 provided a distributional record for the western yellow bat {Lasiurus xanthinus) in Texas. Over both years, we captured two adult males and one adult female at the same netting site in the fall. All three bats were collected over a spring along an intermittent stream dominated by cottonwood {Populus), acacia (Acacia), desert willow (Chilopsis linearis), and cattail (Typha), in desert lowland. We suggest that these bats are expanding their range into the Big Bend region. The diet of one specimen included Hemiptera, Diptera, Hymenoptera, Lepidoptera, Coleoptera, and Orthoptera. We confirmed species identification with diagnostic restriction sites in the mitochondrial 12S ribosomal RNA gene. /// Un muestreo empleando redes de malla realizado en el Parque Nacional Big Bend, condado de Brewster, Texas, durante 1996 y 1997 result en un nuevo registro del murcilago amarillo (Lasiurus xanthinus) en Texas. Durante ambos aos, capturamos dos machos adultos y una hembra adulto en el mismo lugar durante el otoo. Los tres especimenes se colectaron sobre un manantial a lo largo de un riachuelo intermitente dominado por Populus, Acacia, Typha, y Chilopis linearis en tierra baja desrtica. Sugerimos que estos murcilagos estn expandiendo su distribucin dentro de la regin de Big Bend. La dieta de un espcimen incluy Hemptera, Dptera, Hymenptera, Lepidptera, Coleptera, y Ortptera. La identificacin de la especie fue confirmada mediante el diagnstico de sitios de restriccin en el gene 12S ribosomtico de ARN mitocondrial.
30055230|We radio-tagged 44 endangered salt marsh harvest mice (Reithrodontomys raviventris) during 1991 and 1992 at Mare Island Naval Shipyard, Solano Co., California, to document movements and home range size of this species. Mean distance moved between 2-hour observation periods was 11.9 m, and mean home range area was 2,133 m. There was no significant difference for mean distance moved or size of home range between sexes; between males that had abdominal testes or those that had scrotal testes; or among females that were nonreproductive, developing mammaries, had developed mammaries, or were pregnant. For all salt marsh harvest mice, greatest mean distances moved and largest areas of home range occurred during June, whereas smallest mean distances moved and smallest home ranges occurred during November. There were no significant differences among months for either mean distance moved or home range area. Movement patterns of salt marsh harvest mice revealed that mice crossed roads, levees, and canals. /// Marcamos con radios 44 ratones salt marsh harvest {Reithrodontomys raviventris) en peligro de extincin durante 1991 y 1992 en Mare Island Naval Shipyard, Condado Solano, California, para documentar movimientos y tamao de rango de hogar de esta especie. El promedio de la distancia recorrida en periodos de observacin de 2 horas fue de 11.9 m y el promedio de rango de hogar fue de 2,133 m. No hubo una diferencia significativa para el promedio de la distancia recorrida ni para el tamao del rango de hogar entre sexos; entre machos que tenan testculos abdominales o escrotales; ni entre hembras que no estaban reproduciendo, que estaban desarrollando mamas, que tenan mamas ya desarrolladas, o que estaban embarazadas. Para todos los ratones salt marsh harvest, el promedio mayor de distancia recorrida y el ms grande rango de hogar ocurrieron en junio, mientras que el promedio menor de distancia recorrida y el menor rango de hogar ocurrieron durante noviembre. Sin embargo, no hubo diferencias significativas entre los meses ni en el promedio de la distancia recorrida ni en el rea del rango de hogar. Los patrones de movimiento del ratn salt marsh harvest revelaron que los ratones atravezaron caminos, riberas y canales.
30055231|We examined frequency of lambing, lamb survivorship, site fidelity for lambing areas, and described lambing areas of a small population of mountain sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana) in the Little Harquahala Mountains, Arizona from 1989 to 1991. We collected data from 57% of the population by radio-collaring 10 adult females and two lambs, and relocated the females during and after parturition each year (266 relocations). Nineteen lambs were born to 10 females. Six of these lambs survived 6 months and 13 lambs lived an average of 34 days. One lamb died from a fall and one died from being stepped on; the causes of the other 11 mortalities are unknown. Five females did not raise any lambs that lived 6 months in any year. No female raised a lamb that lived 6 months in 2 consecutive years. Lambing areas used by individual females were separated by more than 7 km each year. No female used a lambing area used by another female. Percent slope, topographic position, and vegetation composition were not different at lambing sites compared to sites used during other times of the year. Habitat used by females during the period around parturition had more thermal cover than random sites. Habitat used by female sheep throughout the year was steeper, higher in topographic position, and had more brittle bush {Encelia farinosa), creosote bush {Larrea tridentata), palo verde (Cercidium microphyllum), and barrel cacti (Ferocactus wislizenii) than random sites. Lambing sites are used for relatively short periods of time and their importance may be underestimated by broad scale studies of habitat use. /// Examinamos la frequencia de reproduccin, sobreviviencia de corderos, fidelidad para reas de reproduccin, y describimos reas de reproduccin de una poblacin pequea del borrego cimarrn (Ovis canadensis mexicana) en las Montaas Little Harquahala, Arizona de 1989 a 1991. Colectamos datos de 57% de la poblacin usando radiocollares en diez hembras adultos y dos corderos, y relocalizamos las hembras durante y despus de parto cada ao (266 relocali-zaciones). Diecinueve corderos nacieron de 10 hembras. Seis de los corderos sobrevivieron 6 meses y 13 corderos vivieron un promedio de 34 das. Un cordero muri de una cada y uno muri cuando fue pisado; las causas de las otras 11 muertes son desconocidas. Cinco hembras no criaron ningn cordero que viviera 6 meses en un ao u otro. Ninguna hembra cri un cordero que viviera 6 meses en 2 aos consecutivos. reas de reproduccin usadas por hembras individualmente fueron separadas por ms de 7 km cada ao. Ninguna hembra us el rea de reproduccin usada por otra hembra. El porcentaje de pendiente, posicin topogrfica, y la composicin de la vegetacin no fueron diferentes en las reas de reproduccin que en reas usadas durante otros perodos del ao. El hbitat usado por las hembras durante el perodo cerca del tiempo de parto tena ms cubierta termal que reas seleccionadas al azar. El hbitat usado por hembras durante todo el ao era ms empinado, ms alto en posicin topogrfica, y tena ms brittle bush (Encelia farinosa), creosote (Larrea trindentata), palo verde (Cercidium microphyllum), y cactus barril (Ferocactus wislizenii) que reas seleccionadas al azar. Las reas de reproduccin se usan durante relativamente cortos perodos de tiempo y puede ser que su importancia es subestimada por estudios de uso de hbitat de escala amplia.
30055232|Productivity and performance were evaluated over a 4-year period for a herd of nonsupplemented bison (Bos bison) at the Konza Prairie Research Natural Area in northeastern Kansas. Calving rates ranged from 65.7% to 79.2%, with an average of 74.4%. Out of 317 calves born, 47.3% were male and 52.7% were female. Numbers of male and female calves born each year did not deviate from an expected 50:50 ratio except in 1997. At 6 months of age, male bison calves were significantly heavier than female calves. By 7.5 years of age, females weighed an average of 455 kg, and males averaged 727 kg. Male and female calves gained an average of 2.6% of their body mass over their first winter, but all other animals lost an average of 11.3% of their body mass over winter. All winters were relatively mild during this study, and mass losses for different age and sex groups did not differ significantly among years. Performance and productivity data for the Konza Prairie bison provide a benchmark for comparison with other herds. /// La productividad y el crecimiento corporal fueron evaluados en un rebao de bfalos americanos (Bos bison) sin suplemento alimenticio durante un perodo de cuatro aos en el Konza Prairie Research Natural Area en el noroeste del estado de Kansas. El porcentaje de fertilidad vari desde 65.7% hasta 79.2%, con un promedio de 74.4%. De 317 terneros nacidos, 47.3% fueron machos y 52.7% fueron hembras. La cantidad de machos y hembras nacidos cada ao no se desvi de la proporcin esperada de 50:50, con la excepcin del ao 1997. A los seis meses de edad, los machos eran significativamente ms pesados de que las hembras. A los siete aos y medio de edad, el peso promedio de las hembras fue de 455 kilos, y el de los machos fue 727 kilos. Ambos sexos ganaron un promedio de 2.6% de su peso corporal durante su primer invierno, mientras que todos los dems animales perdieron un promediode 11.3% de su peso corporal durante el invierno. En el transcurso de esta investigacin, todos los inviernos fueron templados durante este estudio, y la prdida del peso corporal en diferentes grupos de edad y sexo no difiri significativamente entre aos. Los datos sobre la productividad y el crecimiento corporal del bisonte en Konza Prairie proporcionan un punto de referencia para la comparacin con otros rebaos.
30055233|Food availability is believed to be a major factor regulating the size of kit fox {Vulpes macrotis) populations, but this association has been based mostly on correlative or descriptive studies. In 1988 and 1989, we experimentally evaluated the effects of food availability on a kit fox population by comparing survival, sources of mortality, reproduction, and dispersal between foxes with access to supplemental food (fed foxes) and foxes without access to supplemental food (controls). Fed pups and adults from 1988 had significantly higher survival than corresponding control foxes. However, there was no significant difference in survival rates between fed and control pups of 1989. Most foxes for which a cause of death could be determined were killed by mammalian predators, primarily coyotes (Canis latrans). The proportion of deaths caused by predators did not differ between control and fed groups. Five of six adult females and four of eight yearling females from the supplementally fed group whelped. Three of five adult females and one of four yearlings from the control group whelped. The proportion of male foxes that dispersed during their first year was higher for control foxes than fed foxes. Average dispersal distances were not significantly different between fed and control groups, but the two longest dispersal distances were made by control foxes. Overall, supplemental feeding had a positive affect on demographic parameters of kit foxes, suggesting that recruitment rates of kit foxes are influenced by prey availability. However, dissimilar survival results among the two cohorts of pups indicate that the relationship between survival and food availability is complicated by other factors, such as coyote predation. /// Se cree que un factor principal que regula el tamao de las poblaciones de la zorra del desierto {Vulpes macrotis) es la disponibilidad de alimento, pero esta asociacin ha estado principalmente basada en estudios correlativos descriptivos. En 1988 y 1989, evaluamos experimentalmente los efectos de la disponibilidad de alimento en una poblacin de la zorra del desierto, comparando sobrevivencia, agentes de mortalidad, reproduccin, y emigracin entre zorras con acceso a suplementacin alimenticia (zorras alimentadas) y zorras sin acceso a suplementacin alimenticia (control). Los cachorros y adultos alimentados durante 1988 tuvieron la sobrevivencia significativamente ms alta que la correspondiente a las zorras control. Sin embargo, no hubo una diferencia significativa en la sobrevivencia entre los cachorros de zorras alimentadas y los del control en 1989. La mayora de las zorras para las que se pudo determinar la causa de muerte murieron por mamferos depredadores, principalmente coyotes (Canis latrans). La proporcin de muertes causadas por de predadores no difiri entre los grupos alimentados y control. Cinco de las seis hembras adultos y cuatro de las ocho hembras de un ao del grupo con suplementacin alimenticia parieron. La proporcin de zorras macho que emigraron durante su primer ao fue ms alta para las zorras control que para las zorras alimentadas. El promedio de distancia de emigracin entre las zorras alimentadas y las control no fue significativamente diferente, pero las dos distancias mayores de emigracin correspondieron a zorras control. En resumen, la suplementacin de alimento tuvo un resultado positivo sobre los parmetros demogrficos de la zorra del desierto, sugiriendo que las tasos de reclutamiento de las zorras del desierto estn influenciadas por la disponibilidad de presas. Sin embargo, los distintos resultados de sobrevivencia de los dos grupos de cachorros indican que la relacin entre sobrevivencia y disponibilidad de alimento est complicada por otros factores, tales como la predacin por coyotes.
10.2307/3672341|We present the first hierarchical classification system of the existing natural vegetation of Kansas. Sixty vegetation community types are recognized in classes of forest, woodland, shrubland, and herbaceous vegetation, with most of the types classified as herbaceous plant communities. One community type, chalkflat mixed prairie, is unique to Kansas and 11 other types are known to occur in only one other state. The purpose of the vegetation classification system is to support the efforts of the Kansas Natural Heritage Inventory of the Kansas Biological Survey and the Kansas Gap Analysis Project to identify and describe current native plant communities. Its use is recommended for those working on land management and conservation efforts in Kansas and the central Great Plains. /// Presentamos el primer sistema jerrquico de clasificacin de la vegetacin natural actual en el estado de Kansas, USA. Son reconocidos sesenta tipos de comunidades de vegetacin en clases de bosque, arboledo, matorral, y vegetacin herbcea, con la mayora de los tipos clasificados como comunidades de plantas herbceas. Un tipo de comunidad, llanura mixta de piedra caliza, es nico de Kansas y otros 11 tipos son conocidos solamente en otro estado. El propsito del sistema de clasificacin de la vegetacin es de apoyar los esfuerzos del "Kansas Natural Heritage Inventory," del "Kansas Biological Survey," y del "Kansas Gap Analysis Project" a identificar y describir comunidades de plantas nativas actuales. Su uso es recomendado para los que est trabajando en el manejo de la tierra y los esfuerzos de conservacin en Kansas y en las Grandes Planicies centrales.
10.2307/3672342|Stands of corkbark fir--Englemann spruce were sampled on Buck Mountain (elevation 3,282 m) within the White Mountains of south-central New Mexico. A time series of aerial photographs suggests that adjacent meadows have been invaded by these high-elevation stands continuously on the southwestern slope since the 1930s, although the forest-meadow boundary on the northeastern slope has been relatively stable for decades. To obtain baseline information about stands, and to assess patterns of encroachment into meadows, quadrats were established in intact forest on both the southwestern and northeastern slopes, and contiguous quadrats extended into the adjacent meadow. Increment cores were extracted from the two apparently oldest trees of each species within each quadrant (n = 53 trees) to estimate establishment dates. Based on field data and historical records, we conclude that climatic change is a more likely explanation for encroachment of trees into the adjacent meadow, rather than fire suppression or changes in grazing intensities at this site. /// Se muestrearon grupos de rboles de Abies lasiocarpa var. arizonica y Picea englemannii en Buck Mountain (elevacin 3,282 m) en la Sierra Blanca del centro-sur de Nuevo Mxico, USA. Una serie de fotos areas sugiere que los claros contigos han sido invadidos por estos grupos de rboles de alta elevacin en la cuesta del suroeste continuamente desde 1930, aunque el borde entre el bosque y el claro en la cuesta noreste ha sido relativamente estable durante dcadas. Para obtener datos bsicos del bosque y para evaluar el patrn de invasin de los claros, se establecieron cuadrantes en bosques intactos en las cuestas suroeste y noreste, y se extendieron cuadrantes contigos hasta el claro adyacente. Se utiliz un oradador para estimar las fechas de establecimiento de los dos rboles de cada especie aparentemente ms antigos dentro de cada cuadrante (n = 53 rboles). Segn datos de campo y documentos histricos, concluimos que el cambio climtico es la explicacin ms probable para la invasin de rboles en el claro contigo, en vez de supresin del fuego o cambios en la intensidad de pastoro.
10.2307/3672343|Necrophilic traps were used to collect ants from both disturbed and undisturbed sites within the Caon del Novillo which is located in the Sierra Madre Oriental of northeastern Mexico. Of the 23 species of Formicidae collected, representing five subfamilies, one species is a new record for Mexico, and six species are new records for the state of Tamaulipas. Shannon-Wiener index of diversity showed that undisturbed pine and oak forest sites were more diverse than disturbed sites, but that the disturbed site was more diverse than the undisturbed site in the tropical forest. /// Se utilizaron trampas necrofilicas para colectar hormigas en reas alteradas y no alteradas en el Can del Novillo, localizado en la Sierra Madre Oriental, al noreste de Mxico. Se colectaron 23 especies de Formicidae representadas en cinco subfamilias, de las cuales una es un nuevo registro para Mxico y seis son nuevos registors para el estado de Tamaulipas. El indice de diversidad de Shannon-Wiener mostr que las reas no alteradas de los bosques de pino y encino fueron ms diversas que las reas alteradas, pero en el bosque tropical, las reas alteradas fueron ms diversas que las reas no alteradas.
10.2307/3672344|Ambiguities in the identification and nomenclature of the Edwardsii group of Alpheus led to an investigation of allozymic variation in two sympatric snapping shrimps, Alpheus heterochaelis and A. angulatus, from the northern Gulf of Mexico and northwestern Atlantic coasts. Twelve allozyme loci were examined for 287 individuals. Electrophoretic variation was consistent with studies elsewhere in which the shrimps were morphologically differentiated into two groups representing A. heterochaelis and A. angulatus. Individuals were partitioned into two discrete groups, fixed for alternate alleles at seven loci. The remaining four loci were polymorphic, with each group exhibiting different allele frequencies. Genetic distance and similarity of the two groups were estimated at 1.729 and 0.192, respectively. The high degree of genetic distance between the two species contrasts with their high degree of morphological similarity described elsewhere. Clustering analyses for A. angulatus revealed a pattern consistent with biogeographic patterns suggested in other studies for the northern Gulf of Mexico and northwestern Atlantic coasts. /// Ambigedades en la identificacin y nomenclatura del grupo Edwardsii del gnero Alpheus estimularon una investigacin de la variacin alozmica en dos camarones pistoleros simptricos, Alpheus heterochaelis y A. antulatus, de la parte nortea del Golfo de Mxico y la costa noroeste del Atlntico. Examinanos 12 loci alozmicos en 287 individuos. La variacin electrofortica fue consistente con otros estudios que diferenciaron los camarones morfolgicamente en dos grupos correspondientes a A. heterochaelis y A. angulatus. Los individuos fueron divididos en dos grupos discretos, fijos por alelos alternativos en siete loci. Los otros quatro loci fueron polimrficos, y cada grupo demostr frecuencias diferentes de alelos. Estimamos la distancia gentica y similitud de los dos grupos a 1.729 y 0.192, respectivamente. El grado amplio de distancia gentica entre las dos especies contrasta con el grado amplio de similitud morfolgica descrita en otro lugar. Anlisis de racimos en A. angulatus demostr un patrn consistente con patrones biogeogrficos propuestos en otros estudios en la parte norte del Golfo de Mxico y la costa norteoccidental del Atlntico.
10.2307/3672345|We used the computer program RAMAS to perform a population viability analysis for the leopard darter, Percina pantherina. This percid fish is a threatened species confined to five isolated rivers in the Ouachita Mountains of Oklahoma and Arkansas. A base model created from life history data indicated a 6% probability that the leopard darter would go extinct in 50 years. We performed sensitivity analyses to determine the effects of initial population size, variation in age structure, variation in severity and probability of catastrophe, and migration rate. Catastrophe (modeled as the probability and severity of drought) and migration had the greatest effects on persistence. Results of these simulations have implications for management of this species. /// Utilizamos el programa de computadora RAMAS para realizar un anlisis de la viabilidad de la poblacin para el dardo leopardo, Percina pantherina. Este pez prcido es una especie amenazada de extincin y est confinado a cinco ros aislados en las montaas de Ouachita de Oklahoma y de Arkansas. Un modelo bsico creado de datos de la historia de la vida indic una probabilidad de 6% que el dardo leopardo se extinguira en 50 aos. Realizamos anlisis de sensibilidad para determinar los efectos del tamao inicial de la poblacin, de la variacin en estructura de edad, de la variacin en severidad y la probabilidad de catstrofe, y de la tasa de migracin. La catstrofe (modelada como la probabilidad y la severidad de la sequa) y la migracin afectaron ms la persistencia. Los resultados de estas simulaciones tienen implicaciones para el manejo de esta especie.
10.2307/3672346|The southernmost subspecies of the cantil, Agkistrodon bilineatus howardgloydi, occurs in almost all terrestrial habitats of the Sector Santa Rosa, in Guanacaste Conservation Area, Costa Rica. We obtained 21 specimens during several visits to the park from 1993 to 1996. Neonates were observed only during late May through July, despite searching in other months, suggesting that birth in this subspecies occurs at the beginning of the rainy season. Fecal analyses revealed differences in diet composition between juveniles and adults. Juveniles prey primarily on lizards and various species of frogs, whereas adults eat rodents. This ontogenetic change in diet does not seem to trigger any corresponding change in venom composition with snake age. Venom of this subspecies is highly toxic <tex-math>$(\text{LD}_{50}=1.25\ \mu \text{g}/\text{g})$</tex-math>, and has elevated hemorrhagic, hemolytic, and myotoxic activities. Extreme deforestation of dry forest habitats in the Pacific lowlands of Central America has made A. bilineatus a rare species over most of its range. Sector Santa Rosa in Costa Rica is the only area within its distributional range where the species still can be regularly observed. /// La subespecie ms austral del cantil, Agkistrodon bilineatus howardgloydi, ocupa casi todos los habitats terrestres del Sector Santa Rosa, Area de Conservacin Guanacaste, Costa Rica. Se obtuvieron 21 especmenes durante varias visitas al rea desde 1993 a 1996. Neonatos fueron observados slo desde fines de mayo hasta julio, aunque se buscaron en otros meses. Esto sugiere que los nacimientos de esta subespecie coinciden con el inicio de la temporada de lluvias. Un anlisis de restos fecales revel diferencias en la composicin de dieta entre juveniles y adultos. Los juveniles depredan principalmente lagartijas y varias especies de ranas, mientras que los adultos comen roedores. Esta variacin en dieta no parece estar relacionada con combios en la composicin de los venenos con la edad de la serpiente. En esta subespecie, el veneno es altamente txico <tex-math>$(\text{DL}_{50}=1.25\ \mu \text{g}/\text{g})$</tex-math> y tiene elevada actividad hemorrgica, hemoltica y miotxica. La destruccin acelerada de los bosques xricos en las tierras bajas del Pacfico Centroamericano ha convertido A. bilineatus en una especie rara en la mayora de su rango de distribucin. El Sector Santa Rosa, en Costa Rica, es la nica rea dentro de su rango de distribucin donde la especie an puede ser observada con regularidad.
10.2307/3672347|We conducted a census of avifaunal richness and abundance on black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies and uncolonized shortgrass prairie in the Oklahoma panhandle in July 1995 and April-June 1996. Five black-tailed prairie dog colonies were paired with five uncolonized prairie sites having similar topography and soil structure. Data were collected by walking permanent line transects and making point counts with a 125-m radius at fixed points placed 250 m apart. Avifaunal abundance and species richness were determined for each site. Avifaunal abundance was significantly higher on sites with prairie dog-colonies than at uncolonized sites during the vegetation growing season. However, we found few significant differences in avian abundance between prairie dog colonies and uncolonized prairie during the drought months of 1996. We suggest these differences are because of drought-induced vegetation dormancy. Drought created homogeneous habitat instead of distinct habitat patches on prairie dog colonies characteristic of normal precipitation years in other regions of the Great Plains. /// Tomamos un censo de riqueza y abundancia avifaunal en colonias de perro de la pradera de cola negra (Cynomys ludovicianus) y en reas de pradera de pasto corto no colonizadas en el "panhandle" de Oklahoma entre julio 1995 y abril-junio 1996. Cinco colonias de perros de la pradera de cola negra fueron emparejadas con cinco localidades de praderas no colonizadas con similares caractersticas topogrficas y estructuras terrestres similares. Datos fueron colectados al caminar transectos lineares permanentes y hacer conteos de puntos con un radio de 125 m en puntos fijos situados 250 m aparte. Abundancia avifaunal y riqueza de especies fueron determinadas para cada localidad. Abundancia avifaunal fue significantivamente mayor en las localidades colonizadas que en las no colonizadas durante la temporada de crecimiento vegetal. Sin embargo, encontramos muy pocas diferencias significativas de abundancia avifaunal entre localidades colonizadas y no colonizadas durante los meses de sequa en 1996. Sugerimos que estas diferencias son debidas a un estado de vegetacin latente inducido por sequa. La sequa cre un hbitat homogneo en vez de parches de hbitats distintos en colonias de perros de la pradera, caractersticos de aos de precipitacin normal en otras regiones de las Grandes Planicies.
10.2307/3672348|In the United States, the mountain lion (Puma concolor) is limited to the western states and an isolated population in Florida. Recent reports suggest that numbers of mountain lions in the west are increasing; however, most estimates are based on biased harvest records, mortality reports, or sightings. Our purpose was to assess trends in mountain lion populations in two areas within the Chihuahuan Desert by use of multiple-sign surveys. Transects were monitored in spring and fall 1987 to 1996 in Carlsbad Caverns (CCNP) and Guadalupe Mountains National Parks (GMNP). Amount and type of mountain lion sign in each park differed and was likely related to the dominant substrate. A decreasing trend in mountain lion sign was observed on GMNP from fall 1987 to fall 1991 and an increasing trend in mountain lion sign was observed from Spring 1992 to Spring 1996. No trend was observed on CCNP from fall 1987 to spring 1996. Mortalities on adjacent lands may have reduced numbers of mountain lions at GMNP. Multiple-sign transects may provide a useful tool for monitoring populations of mountain lions in other regions of the Southwest. /// En los Estados Unidos, el puma (Puma concolor) se limita a los estados occidentales de los Estados Unidos y a una poblacin aislada en Florida. Los reportes recientes sugieren que los nmeros del puma estn aumentando; sin embargo, la mayora de los clculos se basan en registros de recoleccin imprecisos, reportes de mortalidad, o avistamientos. Nuestro propsito fue tasar los cambios poblacionales del puma en dos regiones dentro del desierto Chihuahuense usando reconocimientos de mltiples rastros del puma. Los transectos se evaluaron en la primavera y en el otoo desde el otoo de 1987 hasta la primavera de 1996 en Parque Nacional Carlsbad Caverns (CCNP) y en Parque Nacional Guadalupe Mountains (GMNP). La cantidad y el tipo de rastro del puma varan en cada parque, probablemente a causa del suelo dominante. Los rastros del puma disminuyeron en GMNP desde el otoo de 1987 hasta el otoo de 1991, y aumentaron desde la primavera de 1992 hasta la primavera de 1996. No hubo un cambio en CCNP del otoo de 1987 hasta la primavera de 1996. Las mortalidades en terrenos contigos podran haber reducido los nmeros del puma en GMNP. Es posible que los transectos de mltiples rastros provean un instrumento til para evaluar las poblaciones del puma en otras regiones del suroeste.
10.2307/3672349|Prompted by concern about declining bat populations in the southwestern United States, we surveyed for changes in populations between 1972 and 1997 at a study area in central Arizona. We duplicated earlier searches of ancient Indian dwellings and crevices in surrounding cliffs for diurnally roosting bats during the time of year when maternity colonies should have been present, and repeated mist-netting to capture bats in flight along the cliffs at night. Antrozous pallidus was gone. A maternity colony of Myotis velifer no longer existed. Tadarida brasiliensis was rare in 1997 compared to 1972; aggregations of Myotis yumanensis seen in 1972 were missing in 1997. Breeding Corynorhinus townsendii were found in 1997, but were unknown at this location in 1972. Small numbers of Eptesicus fuscus, Myotis californicus, and Pipistrellus hesperus occupied the site in both 1972 and 1997. Additionally, museum records show that most of the bats we documented at this site also were present in 1931. Surrounding habitat did not appear substantially different between 1972 and 1997, and a reconstruction of possible impacts from bat biologists did not suggest that researchers caused the local extinctions we document. The most obvious change over 25 years was a dramatic increase in recreational use of the area. We believe that disturbances associated with recreationists resulted in the observed population changes, primarily through roost abandonment. /// Por preocupacin por la disminucin poblacional de los murcilagos en la regin suroeste de los Estados Unidos, monitoreamos los cambios poblacionales entre 1972 y 1997 en un rea de estudio en Arizona central. Repetimos las bsquedas anteriores en antigas moradas de indgenas americanos y en cuevas de acantilados aledaos para murcilagos en dormideros durante el tiempo del ao cuando las colonias de maternidad deberan haber estado presentes, y repetimos la captura con redes de malla de los murcilagos en vuelo a lo largo de los acantilados durante la noche. Antrozous pallidus no estaba. Una colonia de maternidad de Myotis velifer ya no exista. Tadarida brasiliensis era rara en 1997 comparada con 1972, y congregaciones de Myotis yumanensis vistas en 1972 no estaban en 1997. Colonias de apareamiento de Corynorhinus townsendii fueron encontradas en 1997, pero no haban estado en esta localidad en 1972. Pequeos nmeros de Eptesicus fuscus, Myotis californicus y Pipistrellus hesperus ocuparon el sitio en 1972 y 1997. Adems, registros de museo muestran que la mayora de los murcilagos que nosotros documentamos en este sitio tambin estaban presentes en 1931. El hbitat aledao no pareci substancialmente diferente entre 1972 y 1997, y una reconstruccin de posibles impactos causados por bilogos de murcilagos no sugiri que los investigadores causaran las extinciones locales que documentamos. El cambio ms obvio en 25 aos fue un dramtico aumento en el uso recreacional de esta rea. Creemos que los disturbios asociados con los recreacionistas dieron como resultado los cambios poblacionales observados, principalmente por abandono de dormideros.
10.2307/3672350|We used mist nets to capture bats in two ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) habitats in the Coconino National Forest, Arizona during June and July, 1993 to 1995. We captured 1,123 bats representing 12 species in ponderosa pine forest habitat and 561 bats representing 15 species in ponderosa pine-oak forest habitat. Four species comprised 76% of all captures: Myotis volans (23.7%), Eptesicus fuscus (23.1%), M. evotis (16.0%), and M. occultus (13.4%). Based on netting effort alone we captured more E. fuscus, Lasiurus cinereus, and M. evotis and fewer Antrozous pallidus, Lasionycteris noctivagans, and M. auriculus in the ponderosa pine habitat than in the pine-oak habitat. Pregnant and lactating bats from nine species accounted for 60% of all female captures. Because some of these species roost in pine forest, intensive forest management practices in ponderosa pine habitats during summer months may negatively influence their reproductive success. /// Usamos redes de malla para capturar murcilagos en dos hbitats de pino ponderosa (Pinus ponderosa) en el Coconino National Forest, Arizona, durante junio y julio, 1993 y 1995. Capturamos 1,123 murcilagos que representan 12 especies en hbitat de pino ponderosa y 561 murcilagos que representan 15 especies en hbitat de pino ponderosa-roble. Cuatro especies comprendieron el 76% de todas las capturas: Myotis volans (23.7%), Eptesicus fuscus (23.1%), M. evotis (16.0%), y M. occultus (13.4%). En base a slo los esfuerzos de captura obtuvimos ms E. fuscus, Lasiurus cinereus, M. evotis, y menos Antrozous pallidus, Lasionycteris noctivagans y M. auriculus en el hbitat de pino ponderosa que en hbitat de pino-roble. Murcilagos preadas y lactando de nueve especies comprendieron el 60% de las hembras capturadas. Prcticas intensivas de manejo de bosques en hbitat de pino ponderosa durante los meses de verano cuando los murcilagos estn reproductivamente activos pueden influenciar negativamente su xito reproductivo.
10.2307/3672545|The evolutionary ecology of plant defenses against herbivores is generally understood in a cost-benefit framework. We studied the ecological consequences of the spines of Centaurea solstitialis L. (yellow star thistle) which are typically thought of as defenses against mammalian herbivores. By experimentally removing spines, which consist of dead tissue, we show that "nectar robbing" lepidopteran visitors are deterred by naturally occurring spines (a benefit). Unlike the lepidoptera, legitimate pollinators (bees and flies) were not more likely to visit spineless flower heads, although bees and flies did spend 20% more time per visit on spineless flower heads. One potential cost of having spines is the lower time per visit of the bees. The net result of spine removal from flower heads was a 22% reduction in the percentage of filled seeds of spineless flower heads compared to spined controls. Thus, spines of yellow star thistle may not only deter mammalian herbivory, but also deter lepidoptera which are illegitimate flower visitors. Although the spines may be energetically costly (not measured in this experiment), or costly because of other ecological trade-offs, it appears that these costs are outweighed by the benefits of spines as a plant defense. /// La ecologa evolutiva de las defensas de las plantas contra herbvoros es generalmente entendida bajo una estructura de costos y beneficios. Estudiamos las consecuencias ecolgicas de las espinas de Centaurea solstitialis L. las cuales son tpicamente consideradas como defensas contra mamferos herbvoros. Al eliminar experimentalmente las espinas, que consisten de tejido muerto, demostramos que las especies lepidpteras que roban nctar de estas flores son repelidas cuando las espinas estn naturalmente presentes (un beneficio). A diferencia de las lepidpteras, las polinizadoras legtimas (abejas y moscas) no fueron ms propensas a visitar las cabezas florales sin espinas, aunque las abejas y las moscas pasaron 20% ms tiempo en cada visita en las cabezas florales sin espinas. Un costo posible de tener espinas es menos tiempo por visita de abejas. El resultado neto de la eliminacin de espinas de las cabezas florales fue una reduccin del 22% en el porcentaje de semillas llenas en las cabezas florales sin espinas comparadas con los controles con espinas. As, las espinas de esta planta no slo repelen a los mamferos herbvoros, tambin repelen a especies lepidpteras las cuales son visitadoras ilegtimas de flores. A pesar de ser las espinas energticamente costosas (lo que no se midi en este experimento), o costosas por otros balances ecolgicos, parece que estos beneficios que tienen las espinas como defensas para las plantas sobrepasan sus costos.
10.2307/3672546|Riparian ecosystems are recognized as one of the most productive and biologically important terrestrial ecosystems, especially in arid and semiarid areas such as the southwestern United States. They are also recognized as one of the most damaged and imperiled habitats due to anthropogenic disturbances. An important element of future restoration efforts will be scientifically-based monitoring and modeling that can be used to inform adaptive management. This paper provides analysis of a data set from a woody riparian vegetation survey completed on United States Forest Service grazing allotments and two preserves managed by The Nature Conservancy within the upper Mimbres Watershed in southwestern New Mexico. Data were collected from 17 sites using line intercept transects. The first three components from a principal components analysis were plotted against stream direction, channel type, elevation, and grazing history. Elevation correlated with changes in dominance of the most abundant species and with abundance of the less common species. Grazing history plotted against the third principal component showed a slight effect of grazing on the less common species and the other physical characteristics showed very little or no correlation with the three principal components. Four riparian species exhibited higher coverage in ungrazed sites as compared to grazed sites. The analysis reveals landscape processes that dominate vegetative communities of the watershed and riparian species that may be sensitive to livestock grazing. Knowledge of these processes and sensitive species can be used to improve the conceptual model of the system and improve conservation management. /// Los ecosistemas riparios se reconocen como uno de los ecosistemas terrestres ms importantes en trminos de su productividad y biologa, especialmente en reas ridas y semiridas como en el suroeste de los Estados Unidos. Estos ecosistemas tambin son reconocidos por su elevado grado de amenaza como resultado de actividades de origen antropognico. Un elemento importante para futuros esfuerzos de restauracin, estar basado en el monitoreo y el modelamiento que puedan ser usados dentro de un manejo adaptativo de estos ecosistemas. Este trabajo analiza datos provenientes de un reconocimiento de la vegetacin leosa riparia hecho por el servicio forestal de los Estados Unidos (United States Forest Service) en lotes dedicados al pastoreo y lotes sin pastoreo, estos ltimos localizados en dos reservas manejadas por The Nature Conservancy en la cuenca superior del Mimbres en el suroeste de Nuevo Mxico. Los datos fueron colectados en 17 sitios utilizando el mtodo de intercepcin de transectos. Los primeros tres ejes de un anlisis de componentes principales fueron graficados contra caractersticas fsicas de la direccin de la corriente de agua, tipo de corriente de agua, elevacin e historia de pastoreo. La elevacin estuvo correlacionada con cambios en la abundancia de las especies ms comunes y con la abundancia de las especies menos comunes. La historia de pastoreo graficada contra el tercer eje principal mostr un efecto ligero de pastoreo sobre las especies menos comunes y las otras caractersticas fsicas mostraron una correlacin muy baja o no existente con los tres ejes principales. Cuatro especies riparias exhibieron una cobertura ms alta en sitios no sometidos a pastoreo que en sitios sometidos a pastoreo. El anlisis revela procesos a nivel del paisaje que dominan las comunidades vegetales de la cuenca y especies riparias que pueden ser sensitivas al pastoreo. El conocimiento de estos procesos y de las especies sensitivas pueden ser usados para afinar el modelo conceptual del sistema y mejorar las prcticas de manejo con fines conservacionistas.
10.2307/3672547|Ochrimnus mimulus is a univoltine seed predator occurring on Baccharis sp. and other Asteraceae in the southern United States and northern Mexico. The insect displayed a preference for Baccharis in the field, with 76% of adults and nymphs found on Baccharis, 15% on asteraceous plants, and 9% on plants outside the tribe in 1993; similar patterns were observed in 1997. When ovipositing in dichotomous choice experiments, O. mimulus females laid 81% of their eggs in Baccharis inflorescences and 19% in non-Baccharis inflorescences. Adult O. mimulus populations on 2 to 6 year-old Baccharis were estimated to range from 64 to 165 individuals during the mating season. A significant interaction (P = 0.017) occurs between the effects of photoperiod and food availability on O. mimulus oviposition, with the most eggs being laid under short photoperiod and in the presence of seeds. We believe that Baccharis is the principal host of O. mimulus, and that the insect's phenology is closely tied to that of the plant such that it maximizes its access to good quality Baccharis seeds and ovules. /// Ochrimnus mimulus es un depredador univoltino de las semillas de los arbustos Baccharis y otros Asteraceae del sur de los Estados Unidos y del norte de Mxico. El insecto demostr una preferencia por Baccharis en el campo, con 76% de adultos y ninfas encontrados en Baccharis, 15% en plantas asterceas y 9% en plantas fuera de la tribu en 1993; patrones semejantes fueron observados en 1997. En experimentos de seleccin dicotmica para oviposicin, las hembras de O. mimulus depositaron 81% de sus huevecillos en inflorescencias de Baccharis sp. y 19% en inflorescencias de otros gneros de plantas. Se estim que durante la poca de reproduccin la poblacin adulta de O. mimulus en los arbustos Baccharis de 2 a 6 aos de edad vari de 64 a 165 individuos. Ocurre una interaccin recproca significativa (P = 0.017) entre los efectos del fotoperiodo y la disponibilidad del alimento en la oviposicin de O. mimulus, ocurriendo la puesta de la mayora de los huevecillos durante un fotoperiodo corto y en la presencia de semillas. Fundamentndonos en nuestras observaciones, creemos que Baccharis es el anfitrin principal de O. mimulus y que la fenologa del insecto est estrechamente ligada a esa planta de tal manera que O. mimulus utiliza al mximo su acceso a las semillas y vulos de buena calidad de Baccharis.
10.2307/3672548|Young-of-year Gila chub (Gila intermedia) were abundant in upstream reaches of Sabino Creek, Arizona, devoid of green sunfish (Lepomis cyanellus), but were absent in downstream areas occupied by green sunfish. We examined potential reasons for this pattern by studying piscivory and habitat use of small green sunfish (<75 mm TL), the dominant size-class in Sabino Creek. In one piscivory experiment, we greatly reduced numbers of green sunfish prior to spawning by Gila chub, but there was no recruitment of young-of-year Gila chub. In a second experiment, three sizes-classes of green sunfish (45-55 mm TL, 62-65 mm TL, and 76-84 mm TL) readily consumed two size-classes of young-of-year Gila chub (15-20 mm TL and 21-25 mm TL) in instream enclosures. Green sunfish predation rates were strongly size-dependent, with larger size-classes consuming notably more young-of-year Gila chub than smaller size-classes. Shallow habitats may provide refugia for young-of-year Gila chub in the presence of large (>150 mm TL) green sunfish. However, even small green sunfish were highly predacious on young-of-year Gila chub, and our habitat study demonstrated that both taxa occupied similar mesohabitats. Co-occurrence of Gila chub and green sunfish in Sabino Creek seems to be the result of periodic downstream movement of adult Gila chub from reaches devoid of green sunfish. Young life stages of Gila chub apparently do not persist in sections of Sabino Creek occupied by green sunfish. /// Juveniles del ao de charalito de Gila (Gila intermedia) abundaban ro arriba de Sabino Creek, Arizona, carente de robalo verde (Lepomis cyanellus), pero no estaba ro abajo en reas ocupadas por Lepomis cyanellus. Analizamos las razones probables para este patrn al estudiar la piscivora y el uso de hbitat de Lepomis cyanellus pequeos (<75 mm LT), la clase dominante en Sabino Creek. En un experimento de piscivora, redujimos notablemente el nmero de Lepomis cyanellus antes del desove de Gila intermedia, pero no se observ reclutamiento de juveniles de Gila intermedia. En un segundo experimento, tres clases de tamao (45-55 mm LT, 62-65 mm LT, y 76-84 mm LT) de Lepomis cyanellus consumieron fcilmente dos clases de tamao (15-20 mm LT y 21-25 mm LT) de Gila intermedia en jaulas en el riachuelo. Las tasas de depredacin por Lepomis cyanellus fueron altamente dependientes del tamao, con las clases de tamao grande consumiendo notablemente ms juveniles del ao de Gila intermedia que clases de tamao pequeo. Los hbitats poco profundos pueden proporcionar refugio para los juveniles del ao de Gila intermedia en presencia de Lepomis cyanellus grandes (>150 mm LT). Sin embargo, incluso pequeos Lepomis cyanellus depredaban altamente los juveniles del ao de Gila intermedia, y nuestro estudio del hbitat demostr que ambos taxa ocupaban similares mesohbitats. La coexistencia de Gila intermedia y Lepomis cyanellus en Sabino Creek parece ser el resultado de los movimientos peridicos ro abajo de los adultos de Gila intermedia desde reas libres de Lepomis cyanellus. Las etapas juveniles de Gila intermedia aparentemente no persisten en las reas de Sabino Creek ocupadas por Lepomis cyanellus.
10.2307/3672549|Territorial behavior of the golden-fronted woodpecker (Melanerpes aurifrons) was studied at San Angelo State Park, Tom Green Co., Texas, from January 1995 through December 1996. Breeding pairs defended territories averaging 17.4 ha. Habitat composition did not explain variation in territory size. During the summer, territorial behavior was highly variable. Some pairs defended post-breeding territories whereas others occupied partially defended or undefended home ranges. Average summer range size was 24.8 ha. Territoriality diminished during fall as communal foraging areas developed around mature pecan stands and adjacent mesquite brushland. By late fall, woodpeckers began to segregate into smaller winter ranges (average = 10.8 ha), which were typically undefended. On average, habitat types found on the study site (riparian woodland, parkland, open mesquite brushland, and dense mesquite brushland) were used in proportion to availability throughout the year. /// El comportamiento territorial de la ave carpintero Melanerpes aurifrons fue estudiado en el Parque Estatal de San Angelo, condado de Tom Green, Texas, desde enero de 1995 hasta diciembre de 1996. Las parejas reproductoras defendieron un territorio promedio de 17.4 ha contra sus conespecficos. La clase de hbitat no explic la variacin en el tamao del territorio. Durante el verano, el comportamiento territorial fue muy variable. Algunas parejas defendieron territorios despus de la reproduccin mientras que otras ocupaban rangoes de hogar parcialmente defendidos o sin defender. El rango de hogar promedio en verano fue de 24.8 ha. La territorialidad decreci durante el otoo cuando reas comunales de forraje se desarrollaron alrededor de parcelas de rboles maduros de nuez y matorral adyacente de mesquite. Al final del otoo, las aves carpinteros empezaron a separarse espacialmente en pequeas reas para el invierno (promedio = 10.8 ha), que tpicamente no fueron defendidas. Por lo general, los tipos de hbitats encontrados en el sitio de estudio (bosque ripario, bosque abierto, matorral abierto de mesquite y matorral denso de mesquite) fueron usados en proporcin a su disponibilidad durante el ao.
10.2307/3672550|We report a breeding population of Virginia's warblers (Vermivora virginiae) from Custer Co., South Dakota in the southwestern Black Hills. The habitat in which these warblers occurred consisted of a shrubby understory of skunkbush sumac (Rhus aromatica) and mountain-mahogany (Cercocarpus montanus) with interspersed or adjacent Rocky Mountain juniper (Juniperus scopulorum) and ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa). We used fixed-width line transect censuses and mist net sampling during the breeding season (25 May-9 July 1998) to determine abundance and breeding condition of Virginia's warblers in this habitat. Censuses yielded a raw density estimate of 8.3 birds per km<sup>2</sup> and a relative abundance (birds per kilometer-long transect) of 1.5 birds/transect. Male warblers captured by mist net (n = 22) had well developed cloacal protuberances and females (n = 5) had well developed brood patches or eggs within the reproductive tract; these features strongly suggested breeding. In addition, we found an active nest with four nestlings on 3 July, thus definitely documenting breeding for Virginia's warbler in South Dakota. This population represents the northeasternmost known breeding population of Virginia's warblers and extends the known breeding range of this species by over 200 km. /// Reportamos una poblacin en reproduccin de un araero (Vermivora virginiae) del condado de Custer, en el suroeste de South Dakota en los Black Hills. El hbitat en que se encontraron estos araeros consisti de sotobosque de Rhus aromatica y Cercocarpus montanus entremezclado o adyacente a Juniperus scopuloram y Pinus ponderosa. Hicimos censos con transectos de lnea de ancho fijo y muestreos con red de malla durante la poca de apareamiento (25 de mayo-9 de julio de 1998) para determinar la abundancia y la condicin de apareamiento de los araeros en este hbitat. Los censos produjeron una abundancia bruta estimada de 8.3 aves por km<sup>2</sup> y una abundancia relativa (aves por kilmetro longitudinal de transecto) de 1.5 aves/transecto. Los araeros machos capturados con la red de malla (n = 22) tenan protuberancias cloacales bien desarrolladas y las hembras (n = 5) tenan bien desarrollados parches sanguneos o huevos en el tracto reproductivo; estos rasgos sugirieron fuertemente el apareamiento. Adems, encontramos un nido activo con cuatro pajaritos el 3 de julio, lo que definitivamente documenta el apareamiento de Vermivora virginiae en South Dakota. Esta poblacin representa el lmite ms al norte conocido de la reproduccin de Vermivora virginiae y extiende el rango conocido de apareamiento de esta especie ms de 200 km.
10.2307/3672551|Small mammals were sampled in woodlands, grasslands, and croplands in the Lake Wilson region of north-central Kansas during June 1985 through December 1986. The 11 types of habitats studied were three woodlands (cottonwood, planted plum-cedar, and plum thicket), four grasslands (grazed mixed-grass prairie, ungrazed mixed-grass prairie, planted grass, and road-side ditch), and four croplands (yellow clover, fallow field, wheat field, and hay field). Of 15 species captured, the deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus) and white-footed mouse (P. leucopus) were the most abundant followed by the hispid cotton rat (Sigmodon hispidus), prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster), western harvest mouse (Reithrodontomys megalotis), Elliot's short-tailed shrew (Blarina hylophaga), Ord's kangaroo rat (Dipodomys ordii), eastern woodrat (Neotoma floridana), hispid pocket mouse (Chaetodipus hispidus), house mouse (Mus musculus), northern grasshopper mouse (Onychomys leucogaster), southern bog lemming (Synaptomys cooperi), plains harvest mouse (R. montanus), thirteen-lined ground squirrel (Spermophilus tridecemlineatus), and least shrew (Cryptotis parva). The 11 most abundant species were distributed nonrandomly among the 11 habitats studied. In addition, these 11 species with the exception of the cotton rat were distributed nonrandomly among the three general habitat types of woodland, grassland, and cropland. The general patterns observed were positive associations of white-footed mice and eastern woodrats to woodlands; northern grasshopper mice and house mice to croplands; deer mice, prairie voles, western harvest mice, and hispid pocket mice to grasslands and croplands; cotton rats to habitats with lush vegetation (planted plum-cedar, planted grass, and yellow clover); short-tailed shrews to habitats with well-developed plant litter layers (roadside ditches, plum thickets, and yellow clover); and Ord's kangaroo rats to habitats with sandy soil (planted plum-cedar and wheat fields). Consistent with these species differences, the composition of assemblages of small mammals differed significantly among the 11 habitats. /// Mamferos pequeos fueron muestreados en bosques, en pastizales y en tierras de cultivo en la regin del Lake Wilson en la parte centro norte de Kansas, USA, de junio de 1985 a diciembre de 1986. De 11 tipos de hbitats estudiados tres fueron bosques (lamo, plantacin ciruela/cedro y matorral de ciruelo), cuatro pastizales (pradera de pasto mixto pastada, pradera de pasto mixto sin pastar, pasto plantado y cuneta), y cuatro tierras de cultivo (trbol amarillo, campo de barbecho, campo de trigo y campo de heno). De 15 especies capturadas, Peromyscus maniculatus y P. leucopus fueron las ms abundantes seguidas por Sigmodon hispidus, Microtus ochrogaster, Reithrodontomys megalotis, Blarina hylophaga, Dipodomys ordii, Neotoma floridana, Chaetodipus hispidus, Mus musculus, Onychomys leucogaster, Synaptomys cooperi, R. montanus, Spermophilus tridecemlineatus y Cryptotis parva. Las 11 especies ms abundantes no estuvieron distribuidas al azar entre los 11 hbitats estudiados. Adems, estas 11 especies con la excepcin de S. hispidus no estuvieron distribuidas al azar entre los tres tipos generales de hbitat bosque, pastizal y tierra de cultivo. Los patrones generales observados fueron asociaciones positivas de P. leucopus y N. floridana con los bosques; O. leucogaster y M. musculus con las tierras de cultivo; P. maniculatus, M. ochrogaster, R. megalotis, y C. hispidus con los pastizales y las tierras de cultivo; S. hispidus con hbitats con vegetacin espesa (platacin ciruela/cedro, pasto plantado y trbol amarillo); B. hylophaga con hbitats con capas bien desarrolladas de hojarasca (cuneta, materral de ciruelo y trbol amarillo); y D. ordii con hbitats con suelos arenosos (plantacin ciruela/cedro y campo de trigo). Consistente con las diferencias de estas especies, la composicin de grupos de pequeos mamferos difiri significativamente entre los 11 hbitats.
10.2307/3672552|From 1993 to 1998, the Biology Team at Los Alamos National Laboratory surveyed small mammal populations in north-central New Mexico using live capture-recapture methods to determine hantavirus seroprevalences. Deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus), western harvest mice (Reithrodontomys megalotis), white-footed mice (P. leucopus), and voles (Microtus sp.) tested positive for hantavirus. We observed a decreasing trend in seroprevalence of deer mice from 1993 to 1995-1996 but an increasing trend in seroprevalence rates in voles. Seroprevalences and deer mouse density were not correlated and varied substantially at sampling locations, therefore microhabitat (i.e., cover, food availability) should be more closely examined as to its relationship with hantavirus in rodent populations. /// Desde 1993 a 1998, el Equipo de Biologa en el Laboratorio Nacional de Los Alamos llev a cabo un estudio sobre poblaciones de pequeos mamferos en la parte norte-central de Nuevo Mxico utilizando mtodos de captura recaptura para determinar el nmero de casos existentes en muestras de sangre de hantavirus. Las pruebas para el hantavirus resultaron positivas en Peromyscus maniculatus, Reithrodontomys megalotis, Peromyscus leucopus y Microtus sp. Observamos una tendencia de menos casos del hantavirus en los ratones P. maniculatus desde 1993 hasta 1995-1996 pero una tendencia a aumentar los nmeros de casos en los ratones Microtus. No hubo correlacin entre el nmero de casos (de hantavirus) y la abundancia de ratones P. maniculatus, y vari bastante entre los sitios de muestra. Por eso, se debe examinar con ms cuidado el micro-hbitat (es decir, su cobertura, la disponibilidad de comida) en cuanto a su relacin con el hantavirus en las poblaciones de roedores.
10.2307/3672448|The effects of fire in plant communities in the western South Texas Plains are not clearly understood. Our objective was to compare forb density, cover, frequency, and diversity on prescribed-burned rangelands and untreated rangelands under controlled conditions, and with the influence of livestock grazing during the first growing season after treatment. Four rangeland sites that were burned during winter 1997, and four sites of untreated rangeland were selected on the Chaparral Wildlife Management Area, Dimmit Co., Texas. Two burned and two untreated sites were subjected to grazing by cattle. Herbaceous canopy cover and forb density were estimated with 20- by 50-cm quadrats during late spring 1997. Forb diversity was similar between treatments. Forb coverage was greater on burned than nonburned sites. Important seed-producing annuals, such as prairie sunflower (Helianthus petiolaris) and croton (Croton), were more prevalent on burned sites. Day flower (Commelina erecta), a beneficial perennial, also increased following burning. Grazing did not appear to influence the presence of forbs on burned sites; however, grazing reduced density and cover values of desirable species such as prairie sunflower. /// Los efectos del fuego en comunidades de plantas en los llanos suroeste de Texas no son claramente entendidos. Nuestro objetivo fue comparar la abundancia de hierbas, la cubierta, la frecuencia, y la diversidad en matorral con fuego prescrito y matorral no tratado bajo condiciones controladas, y con la influencia de pastoreo durante el primer perodo vegetativo despus del tratamiento. Cuatro sitios que fueron quemados durante el invierno de 1997, y cuatro sitios de matorral no tratados fueron escogidos en el Chaparral Wildlife Management Area, condado de Dimmit, Texas. Dos sitios quemados y dos sitios sin tratamiento fueron pastados por ganado. Cubierta herbcea y abundancia de hierbas fueron estimadas por rectngulos de 20 por 50 cm durante el fin de la primavera de 1997. La diversidad de hierbas fue similar entre tratamientos. La cubierta herbcea fue ms grande en los sitios quemados que en los no quemados. Las anuales importantes que producen semillas como Helianthus petiolaris y Croton fueron ms comunes en los sitios quemados. Commelina erecta, una perenne beneficiosa, tambin aument despus de la quema. El pastoreo no pareci influir la presencia de hierbas en los sitios quemados, sin embargo el pastoreo redujo la abundancia y valores de cubierta de especias deseables como H. petiolaris.
10.2307/3672449|Intercanopy bare patches are small, relatively circular communities with an exposed central bedrock, shallow soil, low plant cover, and dominated by non-vascular plants, annual grasses, and forbs. Although these patches are relatively common in the Edwards Plateau of central Texas, their characteristics have never been described. Twelve circular, intercanopy bare patches in the Hill Country State Natural Area in Bandera and Medina counties, were examined using the line-point procedure. Mean cover (SD) of plant, litter, rock, and bare soil was 23  3%, 23  5%, 44  9%, and 10  4%, respectively. Approximately half of the total plant relative cover consisted of forbs with 25% grasses and 25% non-vascular plants. Fifty-seven species of flowering plants from 30 families were identified, including 27 annuals and 30 perennials. The most common families were the Poaceae (9 species), Asteraceae (5 species), Euphorbiaceae (5 species) and Labiatae (4 species). Flowering plant species encountered in 10 to 12 of the intercanopy bare patches sampled were Chaetopappa bellidifolia, Evax prolifera, Croton monanthogynus, Spermolepis intermis, Centaurium texense, Galium virgatum, Sida abutifolia, and Schizachyrium scoparium. Nostoc commune, a common soil blue-green algae, was found in every intercanopy bare patch. Non-vascular plant cover was highest near the edge of the central bedrock and decreased with distance. Total plant and litter cover increased with distance from the central bedrock. Total annual cover was five times higher than total perennial cover and both increased with distance from the central bedrock. Mean number of species found per intercanopy patch was 31  4 with a mean Simpson's diversity of 9.2  2.8. Soil depth increased with distance from the central bedrock, whereas rock cover decreased. Total plant, annual and perennial cover, and litter cover were positively related to soil depth; rock cover was negatively related to soil depth. Nostoc commune relative cover decreased with distance, but Chaetopappa bellidifolia relative cover increased with distance from the patch center, and then decreased near the outer edge of the patch. Heliotropium tenellum and Bothrichloa ischaemum relative cover increased with distance from the center of the patch, with no indication of a decrease near the outer edge. Nostoc commune relative cover was inversely related to soil depth. Relative cover of C. bellidifolia, H. tenellum and B. ischaemum was positively related to soil depth. Almost all soil chemical characteristics were the same from near the central bedrock area to the outer edge of the patch. Soils were slightly basic, high in calcium, low in nitrogen and organic matter. Shallow soil depth and intermittent water availability are probably the main factors that determine composition, including low cover and the high proportion of annuals, in these communities. /// Las reas terrestres no cubiertas por dosel son comunidades pequeas, relativamente circulares con un lecho de roca central expuesto, tierra con poca profundidad, cubierta vegetal escasa, y dominadas por plantas no-vasculares, pastos anuales y hierbas no leosas. Aunque estas reas destapadas son relativamente comunes en la meseta de Edwards de Texas central, sus caractersticas nunca se han descrito. Doce reas circulares destapadas del dosel en el Hill Country State Natural Area en los condados de Bandera y Medina fueron examinadas usando el procedimiento de lnea-punto. La cubierta media (DE) de plantas, hojarasca, roca, y suelo descubierto fue de 23  3%, 23  5%, 44  9%, y 10  4%, respectivamente. Aproximadamente la mitad de la cubierta relativa total de plantas consisti de hierbas no leosas, 25% de pastos y 25% de plantas no-vasculares. Cincuenta y siete especies de plantas florales de 30 familias fueron identificadas, incluyendo 27 anuales y 30 perennes. Las familias ms comunes fueron Poaceae (9 especies), Asteraceae (5 especies), Euphorbiaceae (5 especies) y Labiatae (4 especies). Las especies de plantas florales encontradas de 10 a 12 de las reas destapadas del dosel fueron Chaetopappa bellidifolia, Evax prolifera, Croton monanthogynus, Spermolepis intermis, Centaurium texense, Galium virgatum, Sida abutifolia, y Schizachyrium scoparium. Nostoc commune, un alga azulverde terrestre, fue encontrada en cada rea destapada del dosel. La cubierta de plantas no-vasculares fue ms grande cerca del borde del lecho de roca central y disminuy con distancia. La cubierta total de plantas y de hojarasca aument con distancia del lecho de roca central. La cubierta total de vegetacin anual fue cinco veces ms alta que la de plantas perennes. Ambas aumentaron con distancia del lecho de roca central. El nmero medio de las especies encontradas en las reas destapadas del dosel fue 31  4 con una diversidad media de Simpson de 9.2  2.8. La profundidad del suelo aument con distancia del lecho de roca central, mientras que la cubierta de roca disminuy. La cubierta total de plantas, la de plantas anuales, y la de plantas perennes, as como la cubierta de hojarasca, fueron positivamente relacionadas con la profundidad del suelo; la cubierta de roca fue negativamente relacionada con la profundidad del suelo. La cubierta relativa de N. commune disminuy con distancia, pero la de C. bellidifolia aument con distancia del centro del rea destapada, y despus disminuy cerca del lmite del rea. La cubierta relativa de H. tenellum y de B. ischaemum aument con distancia del centro del rea, sin ninguna indicacin de disminucin cerca del lmite. La cubierta relativa de N. commune fue negativamente relacionada con la profundidad del suelo. La cubierta relativa de C. bellidifolia, H. tenellum y B. ischaemum fue positivamente relacionada con la profundidad del suelo. Casi todas las caractersticas qumicas del suelo fueron iguales desde el rea central del lecho de roca al lmite del rea destapada. Los suelos fueron ligeramente bsicos, altos en calcio, y bajos en nitrgeno y materia orgnica. La baja profundidad del suelo y la disponibilidad intermitente de agua son probablemente los factores principales que determinan la composicin, incluyendo la cubierta vegetal escasa y la proporcin elevada de plantas anuales, en estas comunidades.
10.2307/3672450|We describe two new narrow range endemic species of Branchinecta from the American Southwest; one occurs north of the Grand Canyon on the Kaibab Plateau in Arizona and the other inhabits vernal pools in the Great Central Valley of California. Living as it does in pools on remote National Forest land, the Kaibab fairy shrimp is not in any danger of major habitat loss due to human activities. However, the midvalley fairy shrimp lives in the threatened California vernal pool ecosystem located in one of the most human impacted areas of California. Thus, given the limited number of pools it is known to occupy, the midvalley fairy shrimp is in need of evaluation by conservation agencies to determine if its survival is threatened and it is in need of protection. /// Describimos dos especies nuevas endmicas con distribuciones restringidas de Branchinecta procedentes del suroeste de los Estados Unidos; una de ellas ocurre al norte del Gran Can del Colorado, en la meseta Kaibab, en el estado de Arizona y la otra habita charcos primaverales en el Gran Valle Central del estado de California. Por vivir en charcos en tierra remota del National Forest, la especie de Kaibab no est en ningn peligro de gran prdida de hbitat por las actividades humanas. Por el contrario, la especie del Gran Valle Central se encuentra en el ecosistema amenazado de charcos primaverales de California ubicado en una de las reas ms impactadas por el hombre en California. Dado el nmero limitado de cuerpos de agua en donde se conoce que ocurre, la especie del Gran Valle Central requiere ser evaluada por las agencias de conservacin para determinar si su existencia se encuentra amenazada y si es necesaria su proteccin.
10.2307/3672451|A new method for sampling arboreal arthropods is described. Arboreal pitfall traps were used to compare the ant faunas of a central Texas forest in the process of invasion by Solenopsis wagneri, the imported red fire ant. In the uninfested forest patch, 12 of 14 trees yielded ants in the tree canopy, ca. 10-m off the ground, compared to 3 of 13 trees in the infested patch. Ant diversity per trap-tree correspondingly dropped from 1.4 to 0.3 species/tree. Solenopsis wagneri was collected from 5 of the 27 trees studied and is likely an agent for this decrease in diversity. /// Describo un nuevo mtodo para estudiar artrpodos arbreos. Las trampas de hoyo arbreas se usaron para comparar las faunas de hormiga de un bosque en el centro de Texas que est siendo invadido por la extica Solenopsis wagneri. En una parte del bosque sin S. wagneri, 12 de 14 rboles tuvieron hormigas en el dosel de aproximadamente 10 m de altura, comparado con 3 de 13 rboles en una parte del bosque con S. wagneri. La diversidad de hormigas declin correspondientemente desde 1.4 a 0.3 especies/rbol. Solenopsis wagneri se colect de 5 de los 27 rboles estudiados y probablemente es una causa para esta disminucin en la diversidad.
10.2307/3672452|Species subjected to periodic catastrophes may persist locally through resistance or recolonization. I studied the fate of a population of the walking-stick Timema cristinae (Phasmato-dea, Timemidae) after a natural fire in the chaparral of the Santa Ynez Mountains, California. Using genetically coded color morphs I compared population structure before and after fire to determine that the population almost certainly survived the fire. Measurements of dispersal distance suggested that the area could not have been recolonized from adjacent non-burned sites. Coating of eggs with soil by females may have helped eggs to resist the heat of this fire. This study suggests a means for evaluating the occurrence of local extinction through analysis of genetically-based markers. /// Las especies sujetas a catstrofes peridicas pueden persistir localmente mediante resistencia o recolonizacin. Estudi la suerte que corri una poblacin de Timema cristinae (Phasmatodea-Timemidae) despus de un fuego natural en el chaparral de Santa Ynez Mountains, California. Mediante el uso de morfos de color codificados genticamente, compar la estructura poblacional antes y despus del fuego para determinar que es prcticamente seguro que la poblacin sobrevivi al fuego. Las observaciones sobre el traslado sugieren que el rea no pudo haber sido colonizada de lugares adyacentes no quemados. El cubrimiento de los huevos con suelo hecho por las hembras puede ayudar a los huevos a resistir el calor del fuego. Este estudio propone un medio de evaluar la ocurrencia de extincin local mediante el uso de marcadores genticos.
10.2307/3672453|A new species of theraphosid spider is described. The taxon was collected in the foothills of the Mountain Pine Ridge and the Vaca Plateau, Cayo District, Belize. It is distinguished from congeners by filiform plumose setae on the basoprolateral faces of both trochantera and femora I-II, and the presence of five prominent keels on the apical division of the male embolus. /// Se describe una nueva especie de araa terafsida. La especie se colect en las faldas norteas de Mountain Pine Ridge y Vaca Plateau en el Distrito Cayo, Belice. Se distingue de otras especies del gnero Citharacanthus por vellos filiformes plumosos en la superficie basoprolateral de ambos trocnter y fmora I-II, y la presencia de cinco quillas prominentes en la porcin apical del bulbo masculino.
10.2307/3672454|Six male paddlefish, Polyodon spathula, were implanted with ultrasonic temperature-sensing transmitters and tracked during June through August 1997 to quantify effects of physicochemical conditions on their distribution and movement in Keystone Reservoir, Oklahoma. Paddlefish moved about twice as much during night than day. Movement rate of paddlefish was related to reservoir water level, inflow, and discharge from the reservoir at night; however, none of these variables was significant during the day. Location in the reservoir (distance from the dam) was negatively related to water level and positively related to inflow during day and night periods. Location in the reservoir was negatively related to discharge during the day. Paddlefish avoided the highest available water temperatures, but did not always avoid low dissolved oxygen concentrations. Paddlefish avoided the Cimarron River arm of the reservoir in summer, possibly because of high salinity. Our study demonstrates that distribution of paddlefish during summer and movement in Keystone Reservoir was influenced by physicochemical and hydrologic conditions in the system. However, biotic factors (e.g., food availability) not measured in this study may have been influenced by abiotic conditions in the reservoir. /// Se implantaron transmisores ultrasnicos sensores de temperatura a seis machos de Polydon spathula y se les sigui de junio a agosto de 1997 para cuantificar los efectos de las condiciones fisicoqumicas en su distribucin y movilidad en Keystone Reservoir, Oklahoma. Polydon spathula se traslad dos veces ms durante la noche que durante el da. La tasa de movimiento de P. spathula estuvo relacionada con el nivel del agua de la reserva, entrada de agua, y descarga de la reserva durante la noche; sin embargo, ninguna de estas variables fue significativa durante el da. La localizacin en la reserva del P. spathula (distancia de la presa) estuvo relacionada negativamente al nivel del agua y positivamente relacionada a la entrada de agua durante los periodos del da y la noche. Su localizacin en la reserva estuvo negativamente relacionada a la descarga durante la noche. Polydon spathula evadi las ms altas temperaturas del agua disponibles, pero no siempre evadi bajas concentraciones de oxgeno disuelto. Polydon spathula evadi la rama de la reserva del Cimarron River en el verano, posiblemente por la alta salinidad. Nuestro estudio demuestra que la distribucin durante el verano de P. spathula y su movimiento en Keystone Reservoir estuvo influenciado por condiciones fisicoqumicas e hidrolgicas en el sistema. Sin embargo, factores biticos (e.g., disponibilidad de comida) no medidos en este estudio pudieron tambin haber sido influidos por las condiciones abiticas en la reserva.
10.2307/3672455|Scutellational, head pattern, and meristic and mensural data from 162 specimens of the black-headed snakes, Tantilla rubra rubra, T. r. diabola, and T. r. cucullata were analyzed to clarify the taxonomic relationship between specimens from Mexico and Guatemala (T. r. rubra) and those from Texas (T. r. diabola and T. r. cucullata). The Texas population is relegated to T. cucullata, distinguished from T. rubra in Mexico and Guatemala in having more ventral + subcaudal scales, reduced reddish coloration, and either a solid black head cap or at least some evidence of middorsal division of the white nuchal collar. Tantilla diabola Fouquette and Potter 1961 is confirmed as a junior subjective synonym of the black-hooded snake T. cucullata Minton 1956. Tantilla miniata Cope 1863 and T. morgani Hartweg 1944 are relegated to the synonymy of T. rubra. Application to the International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature will be made to conserve T. rubra Cope 1876. /// Se analizaron los datos de escamacin, patrn de la cabeza, caractersticas mersticas y mensurables de 162 especmenes de las culebras cabeza-negra, Tantilla rubra rubra, T. r. diabola y T. r. cucullata para clarificar las relaciones taxonmicas entre los especmenes de Mxico y Guatemala (T. r. rubra) y los de Texas (T. r. diabola y T. r. cucullata). La poblacin de Texas est relegada a T. cucullata y se distingue de T. rubra de Mxico y Guatemala por tener ms escamas ventrales + subcaudales, por la coloracin rojiza reducida y una slida mancha negra encima de la cabeza o al menos alguna evidencia de una divisin dorsal media en el collar nucal blanco. Se confirma que T. diabola Fouquette and Potter 1961 es un sinnimo subjetivo menor de la culebra capucha-negra, T. cucullata Minton 1956. Tantilla miniata Cope 1863 y T. morgani Hartweg 1944 estn relegadas a la sinonimia de T. rubra. Se har la recomendacin a la Comisin Internacional de Nomenclatura Zoolgica para conservar el nombre de T. rubra Cope 1876.
10.2307/3672456|Certain calls of two species of parids, bridled titmouse (Baeolophus wollweberi) and Mexican chickadee (Poecile sclateri), are compared with those of some heterospecific flock members during the non-breeding season. Marked similarities occur in acoustic structure, and in some cases patterns of call delivery, between calls of the parids and some flock associates. A call of the Mexican chickadee, golden-crowned kinglet (Regulus satrapa) and brown creeper (Certhia americana) are very similar, with another Mexican chickadee call resembling that of the ruby-crowned kinglet (R. calendula) and a bridled titmouse call. Marked resemblance also occurs between the titmouse and a ruby-crowned kinglet call. The evolutionary basis for the similarities is unknown, but vocal similarities may facilitate certain interactions, such as mobbing, in mixed species flocks. /// Ciertas llamadas de dos especies de pridos, Baeolophus wollweberi y Poecile sclateri, son comparadas con las de miembros de parvadas heteroespecficas durante la poca de no reproduccin. Marcadas similitudes ocurren en la estructura acstica, y en algunos casos en patrones de emicin de la llamada, entre llamadas de los pridos y algunos otros asociados de la parvada. Una llamada de P. sclateri, de Regulus satrapa y de Certhia americana es muy parecida, y otra llamada de P. sclateri se parece a la de R. calendula, y a la de B. wollweberi. Un notable parecido tambin ocurre entre una llamada de B. wollweberi y una de R. calendula. Las bases evolutivas de las similitudes son desconocidas, pero las similitudes vocales pueden facilitar ciertas interacciones, tales como hostigamientos, en parvadas de especies mixtas.
10.2307/3672457|We examined abundance and richness of wood warblers among vegetation types at the Bosque del Apache National Wildlife Refuge and the Rio Grande Nature Center in the Middle Rio Grande Valley of New Mexico. Rarefaction analysis indicated that there were marginally significant differences in species richness between sites. In spring, wood-warbler richness was greater at the Bosque del Apache than at the Nature Center. This pattern reflected the greater likelihood of catching uncommon migrants at the Bosque del Apache than at the Nature Center. The same seven species were most common at both sites although their order of abundance differed between sites. Capture rates of these species were greater at the Nature Center than at the Bosque del Apache in the fall, but not during the spring. In general, variation in capture rates among vegetation types was greater in the Bosque del Apache than in the Nature Center. In particular, the capture rates in willow were greater than in other vegetative types. /// Examinamos la abundancia y la riqueza de los pjaros mosquitero (Familia Parulidae) entre los tipos de vegetacin en el Bosque del Apache National Wildlife Refuge y el Ro Grande Nature Center en el Middle Ro Grande Valley de Nuevo Mxico. El anlisis rarefaction indic que hubo diferencias marginalmente significativas en la riqueza de las especies entre sitios. En la primavera, la riqueza de mosquiteros fue ms grande en el Bosque del Apache que en el Nature Center. Este patrn reflej la ms grande posibilidad de atrapar emigrantes poco comunes en el Bosque del Apache que en el Nature Center. Las mismas siete especies fueron ms comunes en ambos sitios a pesar de que el orden de abundancia difiri entre sitios. Las tasas de captura fueron ms grandes en el Nature Center que en el Bosque del Apache durante el otoo, pero no durante la primavera. En general, la variacin en las tasas de captura entre los tipos de vegetacin fue ms grande en el Bosque del Apache que en el Nature Center. En particular, las tasas de captura en sauce fueron ms grandes que en otros tipos de vegetacin.
10.2307/3672458|We provide information on nest-site characteristics and nesting success of the greater pewee, Contopus pertinax, in the Huachuca Mountains of southeastern Arizona. Primary breeding habitats include montane pine-oak forests and sycamore or cottonwood riparian forests. Nests (n = 19) were found between 14 May and 29 June 1997, and between 31 May and 6 July 1998. Egg dates for combined years were between 12 May and 15 July; successful nests fledged young between 21 June and 17 July. Nest predation on greater pewee nests (47.4%) was the principal cause of reproductive failure. No greater pewee nests were parasitized by cowbirds, whereas cowbird parasitism ranged between 11% and 32% of host populations on the same sites. For all species monitored at both sites (n = 203) the frequency of cowbird parasitism did not vary between years; however nest predation was significantly higher in 1998 than 1997. While there was no year effect of nest failure among greater pewees, during the year of low nest predation frequency (1997) greater pewees had significantly higher nest success than other species on the same site. Overall, greater pewees fledged a mean of 0.8  1.0 (SE) fledglings per nest, n = 19. Mean nest height was 11.6  0.8 m in mature stage pines (DBH 46.6  2.6 cm, mean nest tree height 19.7  0.9 m). Greater pewees nested in trees that were significantly taller than canopy trees found in non-use sites. A combination of high nest placement and aggressive nest defense may account for the lack of brood parasitism and low rate of nesting failure caused by predation during low predation years. /// Presentamos informacin sobre las caractersticas de lugares de anidaje y el xito reproductivo de Contopus pertinax en las montaas de Huachuca del sudeste de Arizona. Los hbitats principales de crianza incluyen bosques montaosos de pino y roble y bosques ribereos de Populus. Los nidos (n = 19) fueron encontrados entre el 14 de mayo y 29 de junio de 1997, y entre el 31 de mayo y 6 de julio de 1998. Las fechas de huevos por aos juntos fueron entre el 12 de mayo y 15 de julio; los pollitos se fueron de nidos exitosos entre el 21 de junio y 17 de julio. La depredacin de los nidos de C. pertinax (47.4%) fue la causa principal del fracaso reproductivo. No encontramos nidos de C. pertinax parasitados por Molothrus, mientas que el parasitismo de Molothrus vari de 11% a 32% de las poblaciones anfitrionas en los mismos sitios. Para todas las especies observadas en ambos sitios (n = 203), la frecuencia de parasitismo por Molothrus no vari entre aos; sin embargo la depredacin de nidos fue significativamente ms alta en 1998 que en 1997. Mientras que no hubo efecto del ao en el fracaso de nidos en C. pertinax, durante el ao de baja frecuencia (1997) de depredacin de nidos, C. pertinax tuvo un xito reproductivo significativamente ms alto que otras especies en el mismo sitio. Sobre todo, C. pertinax produjo un promedio de 0.8 + 1.0 (EE) volantones por nido, n = 19. La altura media de nidos fue 11.6 + 0.8 m en los pinos maduros (dimetro a la altura del pecho-DBH 46.6  2.6 cm). Contopus pertinax anid en rboles de dosel que fueron significativamente ms altos que rboles de dosel no utilizados para anidar. Una combinacin de la colocacin alta y la defensa agresiva de nidos puede explicar la carencia de parasitismo y la tasa baja de fracaso de nidos causada por la depredacin durante aos de depredacin baja.
10.2307/3672459|Mark-recapture population estimates from censuses of banner-tailed kangaroo rats (Dipodomys spectabilis) at two study sites in southeastern Arizona were compared to results of direct enumeration. We wished to assess the validity of direct enumeration for this species, and to compare the ease of use and concordance of this approach to determining population size with various closed-population estimators from program CAPTURE. Probabilities of capture of kangaroo rats were high at both study sites. Estimates based on trapping at mounds were all highly correlated with direct enumeration estimates after 3 nights of trapping. Adding a fourth night's trapping changed population estimates little for adults, but increased the estimated number of juveniles. In contrast, estimates based on a trapping grid substantially underestimated the number of animals known to be alive, suggesting that trapping on a grid is an inefficient means of assessing population size for these rodents. Saturation trapping around inhabited mounds is the preferred method for this species, and direct enumeration, a 2-night Lincoln-Petersen index, or even a quick count of active mounds provide precise indices of population size. /// Clculos poblacionales basados en captura recaptura de individuos marcados durante censos de ratas canguro cola de estandarte (Dipodomys spectabilis) en dos lugares del sureste de Arizona fueron comparadas con los resultados de enumeracin directa. Era nuestro deseo determinar la validez de la enumeracin directa para esta especie, comparando facilidad de uso y concordancia de este mtodo en determinar el tamao poblacional con varios estimadores de poblaciones cerradas del programa CAPTURE. Las probabilidades de captura de la rata canguro fueron altas en los dos sitios. Clculos basados en trampeo alrededor de montculos por 3 noches estuvieron altamente correlacionados con los determinados por enumeracin directa. La adicin de una cuarta noche de trampeo cambi poco los clculos poblacionales de adultos pero increment el de los juveniles. Por otra parte, los clculos basados en trampeo por cuadrculas fueron sustancialmente subestimados en la determinacin del nmero de animales que se saben vivos, sugiriendo que el trampeo por cuadrcula es una manera ineficiente para determinar el tamao poblacional de estos roedores. El trampeo intensivo alrededor de montculos habitados es la metodologa ms apropiada para esta especie, y la enumeracin directa, un ndice Lincoln-Petersen de 2 noches, o an el rpido conteo de montculos activos proveen ndices precisos de tamao poblacional.
10.2307/3672460|We studied group dynamics, activity, and foraging related to social rank of Nelson's mountain sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni) in a 3.2 km<sup>2</sup> enclosure at the Desert National Wildlife Refuge, Nevada. Sheep in the enclosure exhibited grouping patterns similar to free-ranging populations, with group size and structure changing seasonally. Solitary sheep spent more time moving than did sheep in groups of 2. Social structure of the enclosed population was significantly hierarchical, but not linear. Females are more egalitarian, yet have a significant hierarchical social structure. Dominant individuals were involved in more interactions than subordinates over the year, and foraged less while bedding more in spring. Subordinates consumed significantly more forbs in winter than dominants. Subordinates foraged in areas with more grass in spring, and more forbs in winter, than dominants. Higher ranking males had increased access to estrous females, whereas female rank had no correlation to reproductive success or offspring survival. Differences between dominant and subordinate sheep in foraging site characteristics, forage intake, or percent time spent foraging are probably sex-specific and unrelated to social status. Social rank appears to be tied to the reproductive success of males, but not females. /// Estudiamos la dinmica de grupo, la actividad, y el forrajeo relacionados con el rango social del borrego cimarrn Nelson (Ovis canadensis nelsoni) en un encierro de 3.2 km<sup>2</sup> en el Desert National Wildlife Refuge, Nevada. Los borregos en el encierro exhibieron patrones de agrupacin semejantes a poblaciones de borregos libres, con el tamao y la estructura del grupo cambiando a travs del ao. Los borregos solitarios pasaron ms tiempo trasladndose que los borregos en grupos 2. La estructura social de la poblacin de borregos cautivos fue significativamente jerrquica, pero no fue lineal. Las hembras fueron ms egalitarias, sin embargo, tuvieron una estructura social significativamente jerrquica. Los individuos dominantes se involucraron en ms interacciones que los subordinados durante el ao, y forrajearon menos y descansaron ms en la primavera. Los subordinados consumieron significativamente ms hierba en el invierno que los dominantes. Los subordinados forrajearon en reas con ms pasto durante la primavera, y con ms hierba en el invierno, que los dominantes. Los machos con rango ms alto tuvieron mejor acceso a las hembras en celo, mientras que el rango social de las hembras no se relacion con el xito reproductivo o con la sobrevivencia de las crias. Las diferencias entre los borregos dominantes y subordinados en las caractersticas de las reas de forraje, el consumo de forraje, o porcentaje de tiempo dedicado al forrajeo son probablemente especficos de sexo y no relacionados al rango social. El rango social parece estar ligado al xito reproductivo de machos, pero no al de hembras.
10.2307/3672461|Genetic variation at 10 microsatellite loci was examined for mountain lion populations from south and west Texas. Texas mountain lions had less genetic variation than previously reported for the species in other parts of its range. The sampled genetic variation defined the two surveyed localities as distinct groups of mountain lion in south and west Texas with evidence of reduced gene flow between these groups. These data suggest that mountain lions within the state should be partitioned into at least two management units. /// Se examin la variacin gentica en 10 loci microsatlites para poblaciones de pumas del sur y oeste de Texas. Los pumas de Texas presentaron menos variacin gentica que la registrada previamente para la especie en otras partes de su distribucin. La variacin gentica de las muestras defini a las dos localidades estudiadas como grupos distintos de pumas en el sur y oeste de Texas, evidenciando la reduccin del flujo gentico entre estos grupos. Estos datos sugieren que los pumas deben ser separados por lo menos en dos unidades de manejo dentro de Texas.
10.2307/3672462|Captures of San Joaquin kit foxes (Vulpes macrotis mutica) during annual livetrapping sessions at the California Army National Guard Training Site, Camp Roberts, decreased from 103 to 20 individuals from 1988 to 1991. This decrease continued through 1997 when only three kit foxes were captured. Similar trends in relative abundance were evident in scent-station visitations and spotlighting observations. An outbreak of rabies virus may have contributed to this catastrophic decrease in abundance because two foxes were found dead due to rabies in 1990. Striped skunks (Mephitus mephitus) are the primary vectors of rabies virus in this region and a rabid skunk was trapped at Camp Roberts during 1989. Captures of foxes were positively correlated with captures of skunks and negatively correlated with proportions of rabies-positive skunks submitted for testing to the San Luis Obispo Co. Public Health Department during the previous 2 years. Interference competition by coyotes (Canis latrans) also may have contributed to this catastrophic decrease because relative abundances of foxes and coyotes were negatively correlated from 1988 to 1997, and coyotes were responsible for 59% of fox deaths during a 4-year telemetry study (1988 to 1991). The negative effects of inbreeding and interference competition by coyotes may hamper the recovery of this relatively-isolated population of foxes or eventually lead to its extinction if recruitment continues to be poor. /// Capturas de zorros (Vulpes macrotis mutica) durante sesiones anuales de trampeo vivo en el California Army National Guard Training Site, Camp Roberts, bajaron de 103 a 20 individuos de 1988 a 1991. El decremento continu hasta 1997 cuando slo se capturaron tres zorros. Tendencias similares de abundancias relativas fueron evidentes en visitas a estaciones aromatizadas y observaciones nocturnas con lmpara. Un brote del virus de rabia tal vez contribuy al decremento catastrfico de la abundancia porque dos zorros se encontraron muertos de rabia en 1990. Zorrillos (Mephitus mephitus) son los vectores principales del virus de rabia en esta regin y un zorrillo rabioso fue capturado en Camp Roberts durante 1989. Capturas de zorros fueron positivamente correlacionados con capturas de zorrillos y negativamente correlacionados con proporciones de zorrillos con rabia sometidos a examen en el departamento de salud del condado de San Luis Obispo durante los dos aos previos. Competencia de interferencia por coyotes (Canis latrans) quizs tambin contribuy al decremento catastrfico porque las abundancias relativas de zorros y coyotes fueron negativamente correlacionadas de 1988 a 1997, y coyotes fueron responsables por 59% de las muertas de zorros durante un estudio telemtrico de 1988 a 1991. Los efectos negativos de cruzamiento consanguneo y competencia de interferencia por coyotes quizs impiden la recuperacin de esta poblacin de zorros relativamente aislada de zorros o eventualmente llevarn a su extincion si el reclutamiento sigue siendo malo.
10.2307/3672463|In agricultural areas of the Great Plains, the swift fox (Vulpes velox) inhabits native rangeland and both cultivated and fallow cropland. It is not known if differences in these habitats affect denning of this burrow-dependent species. We compared dens and den sites of the swift fox in cropland and rangeland. Features of dens studied included size, number, direction and shape of openings, distance between openings, and dimensions of tailings. Features of den sites studied included slope, surface roughness, surface ruggedness, surrounding vegetation, and soil. Finally, we compared surface roughness, surface ruggedness, and vegetation surrounding den sites in rangeland and cropland with those features of randomly selected sites in rangeland and cropland. Dens and den sites were nearly identical in most respects in these habitats. The lack of appreciable differences adds credence to the assertion that the swift fox is capable of exploiting resources available in a patchwork environment of natural and cultivated habitats. /// En las reas agrcolas de las Grandes Praderas, el zorro veloz (Vulpes velox) habita en el pastizal nativo y tambin en las tierras cultivadas y en barbecho. No se sabe si las diferencias en estos hbitats afectan la construccin de madrigueras de esta especie. Comparamos las madrigueras y los sitios de las madrigueras del zorro veloz en tierras de cultivo y de pastizal. Las caractersticas de las madrigueras que estudiamos incluyeron el tamao, nmero, direccin y forma de las entradas, la distancia entre las entradas y dimensiones de los deshechos. Las caractersticas de los sitios de las madrigueras estudiadas incluyeron el declive, escabrosidad del terreno, asperosidad de la superficie, vegetacin cercana y el suelo. Finalmente, comparamos la escabrosidad del terreno, asperosidad de la superfice y la vegetacin cercana a los sitios de la madriguera en tierras de pastizal y cultivo con las mismas caractersticas de los sitios seleccionados al azar en tierras de pastizal y de cultivo. Las madrigueras, y los sitios de estas, fueron similares en la mayora de las caractersticas en estos hbitats. La falta de diferencias apreciables sugiere que el zorro veloz est bien adaptado para explotar los recursos disponibles en un ambiente parcheado de tierras naturales y de cultivo.
10.2307/3672464|We assessed suitability of cropland and shortgrass rangeland for swift foxes (Vulpes velox) in western Kansas. Relative abundance and survival were similar for foxes in rangeland and cropland. Mortality resulting from non-traumatic causes, coyotes, and motor vehicles differed significantly between habitats. Predation by coyotes, motor vehicles, and non-traumatic causes were responsible for 45%, 36%, and 18%, respectively, of 11 deaths in rangeland and 20%, 10%, and 70%, respectively, of 10 deaths in cropland. Swift foxes in rangeland were larger and in better condition than those in cropland. Males were larger than females based on mass, standardized mass (mass/body length), body length, hindfoot length, and ear length. /// Evaluamos la adecuacin de la tierra de cultivo y pastizal de pasto corto para Vulpes velox en el oeste de Kansas. La abundancia relativa y la supervivencia fueron similares para los zorros en el pastizal y en tierra de cultivo. La mortalidad resultado de causas no traumticas, coyotes, y vehculos automotivos difiri significativamente entre los hbitats. La depredacin por coyotes, el atropellamiento por vehculos automotivos, y causas no traumticas fueron responsables por 45%, 36%, y 18%, respectivamente, de 11 muertes en el pastizal y 20%, 10%, y 70%, respectivamente, de 10 muertes en tierra de cultivo. Vulpes velox en el pastizal fueron ms grandes y estuvieron en mejores condiciones que los de la tierra de cultivo. Los machos fueron ms grandes que las hembras basndose en masa, masa estandarizada (masa/longitud de cuerpo), longitud del cuerpo, longitud de patas traseras, y longitud de la oreja.
10.2307/3672826|Data from a 383 base-pair region of the cytochrome b gene of the mtDNA genome were used to define the phylogenetic position of Cratogeomys neglectus within the genus Cratogeomys. Within this gene region C. neglectus differs from members of C. tylorhinus by only one to three transitions (0.26%-0.78%). This is an extremely low level of divergence compared to intraspecific variation within the genus reported by DeWalt et al. (1993; 4.9%-6.3%), and a similar low level of differention (0.52%) is present within the subspecies of C. tylorhinus. These data indicate that C. neglectus is likely a recent geographic isolate of C. tylorhinus and may not be sufficiently distinct from C. tylorhinus to warrant recognition at the species level. /// Datos provenientes de una regin de 383 pares de bases del gene de citocromo b del genoma mtDNA fueron usados para definir la relacin filogentica de Cratogeomys neglectus dentro del gnero Cratogeomys. Dentro de esta regin del gene C. neglectus es diferente de ejemplares de C. tylorhinus por solamente dos a tres transiciones (0.26%-0.78%). Este es un nivel extremadamente bajo de divergencia comparado con la variacin intraespecfica para el gnero reportado por DeWalt et al. (1993; 4.9%-6.3%). Adems, un nivel de diferenciacin igualmente bajo (0.52%) est presente entre subespecies de C. tylorhinus. Estos datos indican que C. neglectus es un grupo aislado geogrficamente de C. tylorhinus, y posiblemente no sea suficientemente distinto de C. tylorhinus para merecer reconocimiento al nivel de especie.
10.2307/3672827|We compared data from an analysis of space use by Abert squirrels (Sciurus aberti) performed in 1991 with data from a previous study performed in 1971 at the same study site (Farentinos, 1979). In both studies, home range estimates based on the 100% minimum convex polygon (MCP) method were positively correlated with sample size. The number of home range sightings used for calculations in the current study was significantly larger for both males and females when compared to that used by Farentinos (1979), as were estimates of home range. Results from the current study also contradict Farentinos' earlier findings that males have larger home ranges during the breeding season than the nonbreeding season, and that males have larger home ranges during the breeding season than females year around. The method used to estimate home range sizes may have influenced the results, and the 100% MCP method may be of limited use for drawing meaningful biological comparisons, unless sample size is held constant. /// Comparamos datos de un anlisis de uso de espacio por ardillas Sciurus aberti llevado a cabo en 1991 con datos de un estudio previo llevado a cabo en 1971 en el mismo sitio de estudio (Farentinos, 1979). En ambos estudios, las estimaciones de rango de hogar que se basaron en el mtodo de polgono convexo mnimo 100% (MCP) estuvieron positivamente correlacionadas con el tamao de la muestra. El nmero de avistamientos de rango de hogar usado para los clculos en el presente estudio fue significativamente ms grande para ambos machos y hembras cuando se compar con el usado por Farentinos (1979), as como fueron las estimaciones de rango de hogar. Los resultados del presente estudio tambin contradicen los resultados anteriores de Farentinos de que los machos tienen ms grandes rangos de hogar durante la poca de apareamiento que durante el resto del ao, y de que los machos tienen ms grandes rangos de hogar durante la poca de apareamiento que las hembras durante todo el ao. El mtodo usado para estimar los rangos de hogar pudo haber influenciado los resultados, y que el mtodo 100% MCP es de uso limitado para obtener comparaciones biolgicas significativas, a menos que el tamao de la muestra sea mantenido constante.
10.2307/3672828|The eastern wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris) experienced population declines in the United States beginning in the 19th century and continuing through the early 20th century. Transgeographic reintroduction efforts have reestablished eastern wild turkeys throughout most of their historic range but effects of reintroductions on genetic composition of resulting populations are unclear. Most reintroduced populations are maintaining self-sustainable populations. However, for unknown reasons, the population in southeastern Oklahoma decreased by 77% from 1980 to 1994. We used multi-locus DNA fingerprinting to evaluate levels of similarity, heterozygosity, and allelic diversity within and among wintering flocks occurring on the Pushmataha Wildlife Management Area in southeastern Oklahoma. Results from two restriction enzymeprobe combinations revealed mean similarity, heterozygosity, and allelic diversity similar to those in other outbred avian populations. Therefore, the decline of wild turkeys in southeastern Oklahoma is not related to reduced genetic variability, but may be due to biotic and abiotic factors not accounted for in this study. /// El pavo silvestre del este (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris) experiment una declinaciones poblacionales en los Estados Unidos comenzando el siglo XIX y continuando hasta principios del siglo XX. Esfuerzos para la reintroducin transgeogrfica han reestablecido pavos silvestres del este en la mayora de su rango histrico, pero los efectos de las reintroducciones en la composicin gnetica de las poblaciones resultantes no son claros. La mayora de las poblaciones reintroducidas se mantienen a s mismas. Sin embargo, por razones desconocidas, la poblacin en el sureste de Oklahoma decreci un 77% de 1980 a 1994. Usamos multilocus ADN "fingerprinting" para evaluar los niveles de similitud, heterozigocidad, y diversidad allica dentro y entre bandas de pavos en el inviemo en el Pushmataha Wildlife Management Area en el sureste de Oklahoma. Resultados de dos combinaciones de "probes" y enzimas de restriccin revelaron promedios de similitud, heterozigocidad, y diversidad allica parecidos a otras poblaciones heterosanguneas de aves. Por lo tanto, la declinacin de los pavos silvestres en el sureste de Oklahoma puede ser debido a factores biticos y abiticos no tamados en cuenta en este estudio.
10.2307/3672829|We monitored breeding phenology and population levels of Rana yavapaiensis by use of repeated egg mass censuses and visual encounter surveys at Agua Caliente Canyon near Tucson, Arizona, from 1994 to 1996. Adult counts fluctuated erratically within each year of the study but annual means remained similar. Juvenile counts peaked during the fall recruitment season and fell to near zero by early spring. Rana yavapaiensis deposited eggs in two distinct annual episodes, one in spring (March-May) and a much smaller one in fall (September--October). Larvae from the spring deposition period completed metamorphosis in early summer. Over the two years of study, 96.6% of egg masses successfully produced larvae. Egg masses were deposited during periods of predictable, moderate stream flow, but not during seasonal periods when flash flooding or drought were likely to affect eggs or larvae. Breeding phenology of Rana yavapaiensis is particularly well suited for life in desert streams with natural flow regimes which include frequent flash flooding and drought at predictable times. The exotic predators of R. yavapaiensis are less able to cope with fluctuating conditions. Unaltered stream flow regimes that allow natural fluctuations in stream discharge may provide refugia for this declining ranid frog from exotic predators by excluding those exotic species that are unable to cope with brief flash flooding and habitat drying. /// Investigamos la fenologa de reproduccin y los niveles poblacionales de Rana yavapaiensis con censos mltiples de masas de huevos y con observaciones directas en Agua Caliente Canyon, cerca de Tucson, Arizona, de 1994 a 1996. El nmero de adultos fue variable cada ao del estudio pero los promedios anuales fueron similares. El nmero de juveniles fue ms alto en la poca otoal de reclutamiento y baj casi hasta cero en la primavera temprana. Rana yavapaiensis puso huevos en dos pocas distintas del ao, una en la primavera (marzo a mayo) y una ms pequea en el otoo (septiembre a octubre). Larvas de la puesta de la primavera llegaron a la metamorfosis temprano en el verano. En los dos aos del estudio, el 96.6% de las masas de huevos produjeron larvas. Las ranas pusieron huevos en periodos cuando el arroyo tena corriente moderada pero no en los periodos de sequa ni de inundacin. La fenologa de reproduccin de R. yavapaiensis conviene para la vida en los arroyos del desierto con patrones naturales de flujo, que incluyen frecuentes inundaciones y sequas predecibles. Los depredadores exticos de R. yavapaiensis soportan menos las condiciones fluctuantes. Arroyos con fluctuaciones naturales de inundaciones y sequas pueden proveer refugios de depredadores exticos para esta rana en decremento por excluir a las especies exticas que no pueden soportar estas condiciones.
10.2307/3672830|Because reservoirs are known to affect upstream fish communities, we assessed change in fish assemblages of a reservoir tributary from surveys conducted 10 and 50 years post-impoundment. We collected fishes from five sections of Buncombe Creek (a tributary to Lake Texoma, Oklahoma-Texas) in each season of 1995, and compared assemblages in each section among seasons. We also compared assemblages in each section pooled over all seasons to the assemblage present in 1954-1955. We used measures of persistence (species composition, Jaccard's Index), stability (relative abundance, Percent Similarity Index), and Detrended Correspondence Analysis to compare assemblages within 1995 and between the two surveys. There was little change in assemblages throughout 1995, with high stability in the most upstream section. The most change occurred between spring and summer. We collected 31 of the 47 species caught in 1954-1955, plus five additional species. The assemblage in the most upstream section of the creek showed the least persistence and the least stability between the two surveys. Longitudinal differences in fish assemblages of the creek were more pronounced in 1954-1955 than 1995. We discuss the possible role of isolation of Buncombe Creek from the free-flowing portion of the Red River in the extirpation of Notropis buchanani, Labidesthes sicculus, and Fundulus zebrinus. /// Porque se sabe que los embalses afectan comunidades de peces ro arriba, evaluamos el cambio en congregaciones de peces en un tributario de embalse de inspecciones conducidas 10 y 50 aos despus de cierre. Recolectamos peces de cinco secciones de Buncombe Creek (un tributario de Lake Texoma, Oklahoma-Texas) en cada estacin de 1995, y comparamos las congregaciones en cada seccin entre estaciones. Tambin comparamos congregaciones en cada seccin reunidas de todas las estaciones con congregaciones presentes en 1954-1955. Usamos medidas de persistencia (composicin de especies, Indice de Jaccad), estabilidad (abundancia relativa, Indice de Porcentaje de Similitad), y Detrended Correpondence Analysis para comparar congregaciones en 1995 y entre las dos inspecciones. Hubo poco cambio en congregaciones a travs de 1995, con una estabilidad alta en la seccin ms ro arriba. La mayora de los cambios ocurrieron entre la primavera y el verano. Colectamos 31 de las 47 especies atrapadas entre 1954-1955, ms cinco especies adicionales. La congregacin en la parte ms ro arriba del riachuelo mostr la menor resistencia y estabilidad entre las dos inspecciones. Diferencias longitudinales en congregaciones de peces en el riachuelo fueron ms pronunciadas en 1954-1955 que en 1995. Discutimos el posible papel del aislamiento de Buncombe Creek de la porcin de corriente libre del Red River en la extirpacin de Notropis buchanani, Labidesthes sicculus, y Fundulus zebrinus.
10.2307/3672831|Extrafloral nectaries of Senna occidentalis attract imported fire ants which protect the plant against two species of herbivores, the cloudless sulphur butterfly (Phoebis senna) and the sleepy orange butterfly (Eurema nicippe). Ant-defended plants had increased growth as measured by plant height and number of leaves, and increased reproductive effort as measured by numbers of pods, numbers of seeds, and weight of pods, compared to ant-excluded plants (using Tanglefoot barriers). Survival of herbivore eggs and larvae was reduced in the presence of ants suggesting that ants provide plants with protection from larval herbivory thus increasing the amount of primary production which in turn allows greater reproductive output. /// Los nectarios extraflorales de Senna occidentalis atraen a las hormigas de fuego importadas lo cual protege a la planta contra dos especies de herbvoros, la mariposa gigante azufrada (Phoebis senna) y la mariposa soolienta anaranjada (Eurema nicippe). Las plantas defendidas por las hormigas aumentaron su crecimiento, el cual se midi por la altura de la planta y el nmero de hojas, y su esfuerzo reproductivo el cual se mido por el nmero de vainas, nmero de semillas, y peso de las vainas, comparado con las plantas sin hormigas (usando barreras "Tanglefoot"). La sobreviviencia de los huevos y larvas de los herbvoros disminuy con la presencia de las hormigas, sugiriendo que las hormigas proporcionan a las plantas la proteccin de herbivoria larval, aumentando as la cantidad de produccin primaria la cual en turno permite mayor capacidad reproductiva.
10.2307/3672832|Two new theraphosid species are described from the tropical deciduous forests and thorn forests of western Mexico. /// Dos nuevas especies de terafsidas se describen de los bosques decduos y bosques espinosos del oeste de Mxico.
10.2307/3672833|Tenebrionid beetles in California's Coachella Valley sand dunes have the highest species richness of any dune system reported for the Mojave and lower Sonoran Desert regions. This beetle assemblage has an uneven distribution, with species richness at any one location varying from 9 to 29 species. Although environmental measurements failed to explain the distribution of this beetle community, distributions of many individual species appeared to be related to a pronounced west to east moisture and temperature gradient. High species richness coupled with an uneven, somewhat unpredictable distribution makes conservation of this community problematic. Previous conservation efforts to protect the sand-dune dwelling Coachella Valley fringe-toed lizard, Uma inornata, have resulted in locations being set aside which are occupied by all the tenebrionid dune species. Although rarely the focus of conservation efforts, the relatively easily sampled beetle assemblage provides a subjective evaluation of the breadth of conservation success by determining how completely protection was achieved in a non-target taxonomic group. /// Los escarabajos Tenebrionidae de las dunas del desierto del Valle de Coachella en California tienen la ms alta riqueza de especies de cualquier sistema de dunas dentro de las regiones de los desiertos Mojave y bajo Sonora. Esta comunidad de escarabajos tiene una distribucin irregular, con la riqueza de especies variando de 9 a 29 especies dependiendo de la localidad. Aunque las medidas ambientales fallaron para explicar la distribucin de la comunidad de escarabajos, la distribucin de muchas especies individuales pareci estar ligada a un pronunciado gradiente de humedad y temperatura este-oeste. La alta riqueza de las especies ms una distribucin irregular ms o menos impredecible hacen problemtica la conservacin de esta comunidad. Esfuerzos previos de conservacin para proteger la lagartija de arena del Valle de Coachella, Uma inornata, han resultado en la conservacin de localidades ocupadas por todas las especies de tenebrionidae de dunas. Aunque raramente es el enfoque de los esfuerzos de conservacin, la relativamente fcil de muestrear comunidad de escarabajos provee una evaluacin subjetiva del alcance del xito de la conservacin en determinar qu completamente la proteccin fue lograda en un grupo taxonmico no enfocado.
10.2307/3672834|Larrea tridentata is a dominant desert shrub throughout the warm deserts of North America. We studied a Larrea population we believed to be in the process of invading adjacent grasslands. To determine whether our hypothesis was correct we developed a set of predictions about characteristics of invading populations and examined the relationship between Larrea density and demographic variation. For an invading Larrea population we predicted that: 1) individuals in low density areas would exhibit attributes indicating higher intrinsic rates of increase--individuals would have greater fruit production, 2) individuals in high density areas would exhibit the effects of negative density-dependence--plants would have canopies in poor condition (with at least 20% dead branches) and be small in size, and 3) low density areas would be below carrying capacity--plots would have a lower total Larrea biomass than high density areas. We measured height, average width, canopy condition, and fruit set for 2,000 plants sampled from 40 plots varying in density. We also estimated the total Larrea biomass for each plot. We collected data on two measures of microenvironmental variation, cover of the common grassland species, and cover of gravel on the soil surface. All plant characters were significantly correlated with Larrea density and both measures of microenvironmental variation were significantly correlated with density. In contrast, results for total Larrea biomass did not conform to our predition. Although the relationship between Larrea density and the plant characters supported our predictions for an invading Larrea population, results for total Larrea biomass did not. An alternative explanation that the pattern of demographic variation within the study population was determined by microenvironmental variation was more strongly supported. /// Larrea tridentata es un arbusto dominante de los desiertos clidos de Amrica del Norte. Se estudi una poblacin de Larrea la cual se crea en probable proceso de invasin de reas de pastizales adyacentes. A fin de determinar la veracidad de la hiptesis planteada, se desarrollaron una serie de predicciones sobre las caractersticas de la poblacin invasora, y se analiz la relacin entre abundancia y variacin demogrfica. Para una poblacin invasora de Larrea predijimos que: 1) individuos en reas con baja abundancia exhibiran atributos indicando ms altas tasas intrnsecas de crecimiento. Es decir, habra un aumento en la produccin de frutos, 2) individuos en reas de alta abundancia mostraran los efectos negativos de los factores densodependientes. Se esperaran copas pobres en condicin (ms del 20% de ramas muertas) y de tamao pequeo, y 3) reas de baja abundancia estaran por debajo de la capacidad de carga del sistema, por lo tanto las parcelas evaluadas en stas reas mostraran valores de biomasa total de Larrea ms bajos. Se midieron altura, ancho promedio, condicin de las copas, y grupos de frutos para 2,000 plantas muestreadas de 40 parcelas de abundancia variable. Tambin se estim la biomasa total de Larrea por parcela. Fueron colectados datos de dos parmetros de variacin microambiental, la cobertura de las especies ms comunes de los pastizales, y la cobertura de grava sobre el suelo superficial. Tanto las caractersticas individuales de las plantas, como ambos parmetros de la variacin microambiental se correlacionaron significativamente con la abundancia de Larrea. En cambio, los resultados obtenidos para la biomasa total no se conformaron a nuestras predicciones. Aunque la relacin entre la abundancia de Larrea las caractersticas de las plantas mostraron evidencias a favor de las predicciones de una poblacin invasora, los resultados de biomasa total la contradijeron. Fue ms apoyada una explicacin alternativa, de que el patrn de variacin demogrfico dentro de la poblacin de estudiada fue determinado por la variacin microambiental.
10.2307/3672589|A state or regional vegetation classification has become a key component of conservation planning. Unfortunately, a monograph of Oklahoma vegetation has not been produced in fifty years. To redress this issue, extant literature regarding the vegetation of Oklahoma was reviewed. Results were reported in the format of the Federal Geographic Data Committee's vegetation classification protocols so as to be available to the broadest possible audience. A total of 164 publications were reviewed and 151 vegetation associations were recognized. The Ozark Plateau and Panhandle were identified as regions in the state most warranting further investigation. Of Oklahoma's 77 counties, no data were found for Grant and Harper counties. /// La clasificacin de la vegetacin regional o estatal se ha convertido en un componente clave en los planes de conservacin. Desafortunadamente, no se ha producido una monografia de la vegetacin de Oklahoma en cincuenta aos. Para enmendar esta situacin, se ha revisado la literatura existente sobre a la vegetacin de Oklahoma. Los resultados fueron reportados en el formato de protocolo de clasificacin de la vegetacin de los Comits Regionales de Datos Geogrficos (Federal Geographic Data Committees), lo cual permite su disponibilidad a la mayor audiencia posible. En total 164 publicaciones fueron revisados y unas 151 asociaciones de vegetacin fueron reconocidas. La Placa de Ozark y Panhandle han sido identificados como la regiones del estados que garantizan futuras investigaciones. De los 77 condados de Oklahoma, no se encontraron datos disponibles para los condados de Grant y Harper.
10.2307/3672590|The pinnate leaves of a vulnerable understory palm species, Chamaedorea radicalis, are gathered from wild populations within the El Cielo Biosphere Reserve, Tamaulipas, Mexico, by local people for sale to international cut foliage markets. Conservation implications of leaf harvesting within natural populations requires collection of ecological information on abundance of palms in different habitats and environmental factors that determine palm abundance. Densities of C. radicalis and associated environmental parameters were sampled in 28 stands of montane cloud forest to determine the relationship of C. radicalis abundance to tree community composition and environmental factors. Ordination of associated tree species importance values was performed using detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and palm density was regressed against environmental factors using simple and multiple regression analyses. Palm density averaged 4,411 individuals/ha with a maximum 14,000 individuals/ha. Density of C. radicalis was greater in stands with high percentage of rock substrate, low tree basal area, and stands dominated by Quercus germana and Harpalyce arborescens. Densities of C. radicalis and the percentage of palms showing evidence of harvesting were unrelated to the time traveled away from the nearest settlement, suggesting that long term harvesting of the leaves may not have had a discernible effect on population densities. However, these results must be viewed within the context of larger landscape patterns of land-use within the reserve. /// Las hojas pinnadas de Chamaedorea radicalis, una especie de palma del sotobosque considerada vulnerable son colectadas de las poblaciones silvestres por los lugareos de la Reserva de la Biosfera El Cielo, Tamaulipas, Mxico, para su venta al mercado internacional de hojas. Implicaciones conservacionistas sobre las cosechas en poblaciones naturales requiere recopilar informaciones ecolgicas sobre la abundancia de palmas en diferentes habitats y sobre los factores ambientales que determina su abundancia. Densidad de C. radicalis y los parmetros ambientales en 28 reas de muestreo en el bosque mesfilo de montaa fueron medidos para determinar la relacin entre la abundancia de C. radicalis con la composicin florstica y los factores ambientales. Se calcul la ordenacin de los valores de importancia de las especies de rboles asociados usando anlisis de correspondencia (DCA) y se hicieron regresiones simples y mltiples de la densidad de la palma contra factores ambientales. La densidad promedia de la palma fue 4,411 plantas/ha, con un mximo de 14,000 plantas/ha. La densidad de C. radicalis fue ms alta en las reas de muestreo con mayor porcentaje de substrato rocosa, menor rea basal de rboles, y areas dominadas por Quercus germana y Harpalyce arborescens. Ni las densidades ni los porcentajes de C. radicalis con evidencia de cosecha mostraron relaciones con el tiempo de viaje al poblado ms cercano, lo que sugiere que la cosecha de hojas a largo plazo posiblemente no tenga un efecto notable en las densidades poblacionales. Sin embargo, estos resultados deben ser vistos desde un contexto paisajstico ms amplio sobre uso de tierra dentro de la reserva.
10.2307/3672591|Vegetation of the Big Ball Hill region of Padre Island National Seashore was sampled using 100-m transect lines within each of four communites during four sampling periods in 1996 and 1997. Importance values of plant species and community richness, evenness, and diversity were determined. Seventy genera and 83 species of flowering plants were identified. These occur in 33 families with the Poaceae (17 species), Asteraceae (11 species), Cyperaceae (8 species), and Fabaceae (6 species) most common. The Big Ball Hill flora contains Flaveria brownii and Sporobolus tharpii, which are endemics of the western Gulf barrier islands. Lycium carolinianum var. quadrifidum, reprted only along bayshores in Texas, was found in the tidal flat community. Plant community structure was quantified and the following profile for the Big Ball Hill region is proposed: 1) a bare foreshore primarily due to human disturbance, 2) a backshore, with much bare ground often due to human disturbance, vegetation dominated by Uniola paniculata, 3) a primary dune ridge supporting Ipomoea imperati and U. paniculata as dominants on the windward side and U. paniculata, Heterotheca subaxillaris, and Paspalum monostachyum dominant on the leeward side, 4) a zone of secondary dunes or vegetated flats, or a mosaic of both with Schizachyrium scoparium var. littorale codominant with P. monostachyum, and 5) a tidal flat that is largely bare but which supports typical halophytic vegetation including Blutaparon vermiculare, Limonium carolinianum, Machaeranthera phyllocephala, Monanthochloe littoralis, Salicornia virginica, and Sporobolus virginicus. Compared to results of earlier vegetation studies on the island, these communities are less diverse and appear to be recovering from previous overgrazing. /// La vegetacin de la regin denominada Big Ball Hill en el prque nacional Padre Island National Seashore fu muestreada empleando lineas transectas de 100-m en cada una de las cuatro communidades, durante cuatro periodos de muestreo entre 1996 y 1997. La diversidad y los valores crticos de las especies encontradas fueron evaluadas. 70 gneros y 83 especies de angiospermas fueron identificadas en la regin de Big Ball Hill. Las mismas pertenecen a 33 familias siendo las familias Poacea (17 especies), Asteracea (11 especies), Cyperacea (8 especies), y Fabacea (6 especies) las ms abundantes. La flora de Big Ball Hill incluye Flaveria brownii y Sporobolus tharpii, ambas especies endmicas de las islas al oeste del Glfo de Mxico. Lycium carolinianum var. quadrifidum, reportado unicamente a lo largo de las bahas de Texas, ha sido encontrado en la zona litoral de la comunidad plana. La estructura de la comunidad florstica fu cuantificada y se propone el siguiente perfil: 1) anteplaya desprovista de vegetacin a consecuencia de actividad humana, 2) playa posterior con una considerable ausencia de vegetacin a causa de actividad humana, la vegetacin que persiste es dominada principalmente por Uniola paniculata, 3) dunas primarias que sostienen a Ipomoea imperati y Uniola paniculata como vegetacin dominante en el flanco expuesto al viento, y Heterotheca subaxillaris y Paspalum monostachyum dominando el flanco al sotavento, 4) zona de dunas secundarias o planos cubiertos de vegetacin, o un mosaico de ambos siendo Schizachyrium scoparium var. littorale codominante en conjuncin con P. monostachyum, 5) plano litoral practicamente desprovisto de vegetacin, que sin embargo sostiene vegetacin halofitica que incluye Blutaparon vermiculare, Limonium carolinianum, Machaeranthera phyllocephala, Monanthochloe littoralis, Salicornia virginica, y Sporobolus virginicus. En comparacin con estudios anteriores, la vegetacin de la isla presenta una comunidad menos diversificada y presenta signos de recuperacin donde antes existieron pastizales sobreexplotados.
10.2307/3672592|We present the first results from long-term monitoring data on the solpugids, or sun spiders, of the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge (SNWR) in central New Mexico. Twelve species were collected from the site, including a new species in the genus Hemerotrecha and a state record for Eremobates simoni. Eremobates pallipes and Hemerotrecha fruitana were common and widespread. Species richness and composition at SNWR were similar to those of Colorado and southwestern New Mexico. Biogeographic influences on species composition included Great Plains grassland, Colorado Plateau, and Chihuahuan Desert. There was some evidence of hybridization between E. pallipes and E. arizonica, although none between the two sympatric species Arenotherus puebloensis and A. mumai. The time course of the study included the El Nio of 1991-1992 and the drought (La Nia) of 1994-1995. Neither of these weather events was significantly associated with changes in solpugid abundance, a pattern also found for many other SNWR surface-active arthropods. /// Presentamos los primeros resultados de las observaciones a largo plazo (1989-1995) de los solpgidos o sol-araa de la Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge (SNWR-refugio nacional) en la zona central de New Mexico. Colectamos doce especies, que incluyeron una nueva especie del gnero Hemerotrecha y nuevo registro estatal de la especie de Eremobates simoni para New Mexico. Eremobates pallipes y Hemerotrecha fruitana fueron abundantes y de distribucin amplia. La riqueza y la composicin de las especies de la SNWR eran similares a las de Colorado y el suroeste de New Mexico. La influencia biogeogrfica sobre la composicin de especie incluye Great Plains Grassland, la altaplanicie de Colorado, y el Desierto Chihuahuense. Haban indicios de hibridacin entre E. pallipes y E. arizonica, pero no entre las dos especies simptricas Arenotherus puebloensis y A. mumai. Durante los aos del estudio ocurrieron dos sucesos climticos, El Nio en 1991-1992 y una sequa (La Nia) en 1994-1995. Ningno de estos eventos climticos influy significamente en la abundancia de los solpgidos, un resultado observado con otras especies de artrpodos de SNWR.
10.2307/3672593|Abundance and dispersion of exposed shells of the white desertsnail, Eremarionta immaculata, were examined in six 8-m diameter circular plots along a linear transect near the species' type locality in the Riverside Mountains, California. Shell abundance alone (n = 98) and added to the abundance of active desertsnails (n = 7) increased with abundance (25 to 58% cover) of rocks <5 cm in size, and decreased with abundance (0.4 to 34.0% cover) of rocks >40 cm in size, but was not related to slope (3.9 to 12.8%) or percent calcium (21.3 to 24.4%) of bedrock (predominately dolomite). Combined shell and desertsnail spatial patterns, analyzed with spline regression of nearest-neighbor graphs, primarily showed aggregated dispersions consisting of randomly-distributed clumps, each containing randomly-distributed individuals. The co-occurrence of E. immaculata shells and live desertsnails suggests shell remains may provide a method for detecting desertsnail populations. Rocks <5 cm in size probably provide favorable habitat for E. immaculata by offering substrate more suitable as sites for aestivation. /// Abundancia y dispersin de las conchas expuestas de Eremarionta immaculata fueron examinadas en seis sitos de muestreo circulares de 8 metros de dimetro a lo largo de un transecto lineal en las Montaas Riverside, California, lugar de coleccin del primer ejemplar de la especie descrita. Solamente abundancia de las conchas (n = 98) y agregado con la abundancia de E. immaculata activo (n = 7) aumento con la abundancia (cobertura de 25% a, 58%) de rocas con tomao menos de 5 cm y disminy con la abundancia de rocas ms grande de 40 cm de tamao (cobertura de 0.4% a, 34%), pero no fueron relacionados con la inclinacin del quadrat (3.9% a, 12.8%) o porcentaje del calcio (21.3% a, 24.4%) de la roca madre (predominamente doloma). La combinacin de los modelos espaciales de las conchas y E. immaculata, analizados con la regresin de la tira (spline regression) de los grficos del cercano-vecino, primariamente mostro dispersiones agregadas que consisten de grupos aleatoriamente distribuidos, cada uno conteniendo individuos aleatoriamente distribuidos. La co-existencia de las conchas de E. immaculata y de los caracoles vivos sugiere que las sobras de las conchas pueda proveer de un mtodo para detectar poblaciones de E. immaculata. Rocas de menos de 5 cm de tamao probablemente proveen un habitat favorable para E. immaculata ofreciendo el substrato ms conveniente como sitios para la estivacin.
10.2307/3672594|The rapid naturalization of exotic saltcedar (Tamarix) trees in riparian ecosystems throughout the southwestern United States necessitates understanding its impacts on various ecosystem components, yet surface-active arthropod communities in these systems remain largely unstudied in spite of their importance to ecosystem structure and function. We used pitfall-trap captures to estimate taxonomic richness, abundance, and composition of surface-active arthropods in two cottonwood-dominated and two saltcedar-dominated riparian forests along the Middle Rio Grande of central New Mexico during 1991 through 1993. Arthropod communities at cottonwood sites were generally more similar to each other than to those at saltcedar sites, but similarity varied among taxonomic groups. Total richness was similar between the two saltcedar sites and one cottonwood site, but lower at the second cottonwood site. Cottonwood sites were distinguished by a greater abundance of exotic isopods (Armadillidium vulgare and Porcellio laevis), but abundance of other key taxa was generally similar or higher at saltcedar sites. Richness and abundance of spiders was greater at saltcedar sites. Predators were the most speciose trophic group at all sites, although detritivores had the greatest numbers of individuals due to the abundance of isopods. Although saltcedar has greatly altered riparian ecosystems and may be less desirable than native riparian vegetation, it does support a varied and abundant surface-dwelling arthropod community that is available as prey to vertebrate species. /// Los tarayes o tamariscos (Tamarix) son rboles exticos que se han naturalizado en el suroeste de los Estados Unidos, especialmente en las zonas ribereas, siendo necesario entender su impacto sobre varios componentes de este ecosistema. A pesar de la importancia de las comunidades de artrpodos terrestres en estos ecosistemas los mismos han sido estudiado muy poco. De 1991 a 1993 utilizamos trampas de copas enterradas para determinar la riqueza taxonmica, abundancia y composicin de los artrpodos terrestres en cuatro bosques ribereos-dos alamedas y dos tarayales a lo largo del Middle Rio Grande en centro New Mexico. Generalmente, las comunidades de artrpodos terrestres en las dos alamedas eran ms parecidas entre si que con las comunidades en los dos tarayales, pero las semejanzas variaban entre grupos taxonmicos. La riqueza taxonmica total era similar entre los tarayales y una de las alamedas, pero ms baja en la otra alameda. Los bosques de lamos se distinguan por una gran abundancia de ispodos exticos (Armadillidium vuulgare y Porcellio laevis) pero la abundancia de otros taxones claves era similar o superior en los bosques de tarayes. La riqueza y abundancia de araas eran superior en los tarayales. Los depredadores eran el grupo trfico con ms especies en todos los sitios, mientras que los detritvoros eran ms numerosos debido a la gran abundancia de los ispodos. Aunque los tarayes han alterado enormenente los ecosistemas ribereos y pueden ser menos deseables que la vegetacin nativa los mismos mantienen una comunidad variada y abundante de artrpodos terrestres disponibles como presa para las especies de vertebrados.
10.2307/3672595|We described the diets of mountain lions (Puma concolor) in a prey-rich ecosystem of southern Texas from 1994 to 1997. We estimated white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), collared peccary (Pecari tajacu), and feral hog (Sus scrofa) densities at 7.7, 4.9, and <tex-math>$6.2\ \text{animals}/\text{km}^{2}$</tex-math>, respectively. Prey use was determined by identifying 75 mountain lions kills and contents of 25 scats. Mountain lions killed white-tailed deer in greater proportion than available, feral hogs less than available, and collared peccaries in proportion to availability. Resource managers in southern Texas should adjust harvest rates of large prey and enhance populations of buffer species to minimize the effects of mountain lion predation. /// Describimos la dieta del puma (Puma concolor) en un sistema ecolgico con muchas presas en el sur de Texas desde 1994 hasta 1997. Estimamos densidades del venado (Odocoileus virginianus), pecari (Pecari tajacu), y cerdo salvaje (Sus scrofa) en 7.7, 4.9, y <tex-math>$6.2\ \text{animales}/\text{km}^{2}$</tex-math> respectivamente. Uso de presa fue determinado por la identificacin de 75 animales muertos por el puma, y el contenido de 25 excrementos. Pumas mataron venados en proporciones mas grandes a lo disponible, cerdos salvajes menos de lo disponible, y pecaris en la misma proporcin a lo disponible. Gerentes de recursos en el sur de Texas deben ajustar las cosechas de presas grandes y aumentar las poblaciones de especies aisladoras para minimizar los efectos depredadores del puma.
10.2307/3672596|The reproductive success of barn swallows (Hirundo rustica) was monitored at two colonies near Commerce, Texas, during 1998. At the north colony, 25% of nests were depredated by the red imported fire ant (Solenopsis invicta). None of the nests at the south colony were depredated by fire ants despite the fact that density of fire ant mounds was more than three times greater than at the north colony. Differences in depredation rates among colonies may be due to attributes of the nesting sites and nesting dispersion of the swallows which limit the impact of red imported fire ants. An evaluation of barn swallow populations in Texas counties before and after invasion by red imported fire ants suggests that these ants have had no effect on long-term populations trends in barn swallows. /// El xito de la reproducin de las golondrinas tijeretas (Hirundo rustica) fue observado en dos colonias cerca de Commerce, Texas, durante 1998. En la colonia del norte, el 25% de los nidos fueron depredados por las hormigas de fuego (Solenopsis invicta). Ninguno de los nidos de la colonia al sur fueron depredados por las hormigas de fuego a pesar de que la densidad del montculo de tierra de las hormigas era tres veces ms grande que la de la colonia del norte. La diferencia en el nmero de nido depredado en las colonias puede ser debido a las caractersticas de los lugares de los nidos y a la dispersin de los nidos de las golondrinas tijeretas que limita el impacto de las hormigas de fuego. Una evaluacin de la poblacin de las golondrinas tijeretas en los condados de Texas antes y despus de la invasin de las hormigas de fuego sugiere que stas hormigas no han tenido ningun efecto en el curso a largo plazo en la poblacin de las golondrinas tijeretas.
10.2307/3672597|We monitored breeding activities of endangered least terns (Sterna antillarum athalassos) to determine effects of hydropower and flood-control operations of Keystone Dam on the 94 km of the Arkansas River from Tulsa to Muskogee, Oklahoma. Our objectives were to determine numbers and productivity of least terns and flow management needs to reduce losses of nests and chicks from flooding and enhance nesting habitat. After breeding colonies of least terns were located, nest locations were mapped from 19 May to 26 August 1992 and 14 May to 30 August 1993. Both years had periodic high flows on the Arkansas River. unlike 1992, bank-full flows in May 1993 reached a discharge of >140,000 cfs (cubic feet per second) through Keystone Dam before least terns initiated nesting. Flows in 1993 scoured and elevated existing sandbars and created new sandbars, resulting in an expansion of nesting habitat that was associated with an increase from 12 breeding colonies in 1992 to 20 colonies in 1993. Estimates of adult least terns increased from 125-166 breeding pairs in 1992 to 212-299 in 1993. Least terns produced 192 nests, 118 chicks, and 80 fledglings in 1992 compared with 345 nests, 285 chicks, and 143 fledglings in 1993. Loss of nests to flooding was greater in 1992 (46% of 77 nests lost) than 1993 (9% of 133 nests lost). Overall loss of chicks was greater in 1993 (50%) than 1992 (32%). Benefit to nesting habitats by periodic high flows before the nesting period was exemplified by a larger population of least terns and fewer losses of nests and chicks to flooding in 1993 than 1992 along the Arkansas River below Keystone Dam. /// Monitoreamos las actividades de apareamiento de la especie en peligro de extincin gaviotn menor (Sterna antillarum athalassos) para determinar los efectos de las operaciones de las turbinas y control de inundaciones de la hidroelectrica Keystone Dam en los 94 km del Arkansas River de Tulsa a Muskogee, Oklahoma, USA. Nuestros objetivos fueron determinar los nmeros y la productividad del gaviotn menor y la necesidad del manejo de la corriente para reducir prdidas de nidos y polluelos por inundaciones y para mejorar el hbitat de anidacin. Despus de que las colonias de apareamiento del gaviotn menor fueron localizadas, la ubicacin de los nidos fue mapeada del 19 de mayo al 26 de agosto de 1992 y del 14 de mayo al 30 de agosto de 1993. Ambos aos tuvieron corrientes peridicas altas en el Arkansas River. No come en 1992, las corrientes altas mximas en mayo de 1993 alcanzaron una descarga de >140,000 cfs (pies cbicos por segundo) a travs de la hidroelectrica Keystone Dam antes de que el gaviotn menor comenzara a anidar. Las corrientes de 1993 fregaron y elevaron las barras de arena existentes y crearon nuevas barras de arena, resultando en la expansin del hbitat de anidacin que fue asociado con un incremento de 12 colonias de apareamiento en 1992 a 20 colonias en 1993. Las estimaciones del adulto gaviotn menor se incrementaron de 125-166 pareias en 1992 a 212-299 en 1993. Los gaviotines menor produjeron 192 nidos, 118 polluelos, y 80 volantones en 1992 comparado con 345 nidos, 285 polluelos, y 143 volantones en 1993. Prdida de nidos debido a inundacin fue ms alta en 1992 (46% del total de 77 nidos perdidos) que en 1993 (9% del total de 133 perdidos). La prdida total de polluelos fue ms alta en 1993 (50%) que en 1992 (32%). El beneficio a hbitats de anidacin por corrientes altas peridicas antes del periodo de anidacin fue ejemplificado por una poblacin ms grande de gaviotn menor y menos prdidas de nidos y polluelos por inundacin en 1993 que en 1992 a lo largo del Arkansas River ro abajo de la Keystone Dam.
10.2307/3672598|Recognition of paleospecies in the rodent family Heteromyidae relies heavily on quantitative dental characters because of a fragmentary record composed primarily of isolated teeth and a highly conservative dental morphology. However, no study has attempted to understand sources of variation in these quantitative characters to assess their reliability in making taxonomic decisions. Teeth of 17 species of the extant heteromyid genus Dipodomys, kangaroo rats, were measured and analyzed to determine these sources of variation. Analyses of covariance and multivariate analyses of covariance were performed to determine effects of sex and age on size of tooth. Age had a highly significant effect on size of tooth in all species, but effects of sex and a sex-age interaction were minimal. Dimensions of posterior teeth such as widths of upper and lower second and third molars were least affected by variation in age. Multiple-regression analyses indicated a significant portion of size of tooth variability in >33% of species could be accounted for by changes in latitude and longitude. This geographic variation had the most affect on widths of upper and lower premolars. These results indicate the need to account for age and geographic variation before attempting to make taxonomic decisions in the Heteromyidae using quantitative dental characters. /// El reconocimiento de paleoespecies en la familia de roedores Heteromyidae depende mucho de los carcteres cuantitativos de la denticin a causa de una historia fragmentaria que consiste principalmente de dientes aislados y una morfologa de la denticin sumamente conservadora. Sin embargo, ningn estudio ha intentado comprender los orgenes de variaciones en estos carcteres cuantitativos para evaluar su nivel de confianza para hacer decisiones taxonmicas. Los dientes de 17 especies viviente del gnero heteromyid Dipodomys, la rata canguro, fueron medidos y analizados para determinar estos orgenes de variaciones. Los anlisis de covariancias y de multivariados de convariancias fueron ejecutados con el objeto de analizar los efectos de sexo y edad en el tamao de los dientes. La edad tuvo gran efecto significativo en el tamao de los dientes en todas las especies mientras que los efectos de sexo y de una interaccin de sexo y edad fueron mnimos. Las dimensiones de los dientes posteriores tales como el ancho de las segundas y terceras muelas superiores e inferiores fueron las menos afectadas por la variacin de edad. Los anlisis de regresin mltiple indicaron que una porcin significante de la variabilidad del tamao de los dientes en ms de treinta y tres porciento de las especies se poda explicar por los cambios de latitud y longitud. Esta variacin geogrfica tuvo el mximo efecto en lo ancho de las premolares superiores e inferiores. Estos resultados indican la necesidad de explicar las variaciones de edad y de geografia antes de hacer decisiones taxonmicas en Heteromyidae usando los carcteres cuantitativos de la denticin.
10.2307/3672599|We measured density, body mass, reproduction, and survival of endemic deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus santacruzae) in five habitats on Santa Cruz Island to assess how deer mice may be affected by vegetational changes following removal of feral sheep. Demography of deer mice varied among habitats, suggesting that habitat quality varied as well. Deer mice were abundant in habitats dominated by woody vegetation (island chaparral, oak woodland, coastal sage scrub), but rare or absent from habitats dominated by herbaceous vegetation (grassland, fennelgrassland). Density, body mass, reproduction, and survival did not differ among habitats dominated by woody vegetation, indicating that these habitats are all of similar, good quality for deer mice. Removal of feral sheep has resulted in invasion of grasslands by shrubs and increase in woody vegetation in other communities, which likely will benefit deer mice. Invasion of grasslands by fennel should have little effect on deer mice because both grassland and fennel-grassland were poor quality habitats. /// Medimos la densidad, masa coporal, reproduccin, y supervivencia del endmico ratn ciervo (Peromyscus maniculatus santacruzae) en cinco habitat en la isla de Santa Cruz para evaluar cmo el ratn ciervo puede ser afectado por los cambios de vegetacin despus del retiro de ovejas salvajes. La demografia del ratn ciervo vari entre los habitat, sugiriendo que la calidad del habitat vari tambin. El ratn ciervo era abundante en los habitats dominados por vegetacin arbolada (isla chaparral, arbolado de roble, sabio costero friega), pero era raro o ausente en los habitats dominados por vegetacin herbcea (prado, hinojo-prado). Densidad, masa coporal, reproduccin, y supervivencia no variaron entre los habitat dominados por la vegetacin arbolada, indicando que estos habitats son, todos similares, de buena calidad para el ratn cervo. El retiro de ovejas salvajes ha resultado en la invasin de prados por arbustos y en el aumento en la vegetacin arbolada en otras comunidades, que probablemente beneficiarn al ratn ciervo. La invasin de prados por el hinojo debe tener poco efecto en el ratn ciervo porque el prado y el hinojo-prodo eran habitats de mala calidad.
10.2307/3672600|Fish remains from 64 archaeological sites throughout the Salton Basin of southern California have been evaluated. These sites date from over 500 years ago when the Salton Basin was filled by the Colorado River, forming the huge freshwater Lake Cahuilla. Over 99% of the remains are from bonytail, Gila elegans, and razorback sucker, Xyrauchen texanus. The remaining fishes represented are striped mullet, Mugil cephalus, and machete, Elops affinis. A single vertebra likely from a desert pupfish, Cyprinodon macularis, is reported from fossils in the basin along with elements of bonytail and razorback sucker. Hundreds of V- and U-shaped rock alignments are found throughout the basin at successively descending ancient Lake Cahuilla shorelines and may have been used to capture fishes. /// Los restos de peces encontrados en 64 sitios arqueolgicos en el rea del Salton Basin en el Sur de California han sido evaluados. Estos sitios datan ms de 500 aos, cuando la cuenca del lago Salton Basin era surtida por el ro Colorado, formando la enorme laguna de agua dulce, Lago Cahuilla. Mas del 99% de los restos son del pez charalito elegante, Gila elegans, y el matalote jorobado, Xyrauchen texanus. Los dems peces representados son, la lisa, Mugil cephalus, y Elops affinis. Una sola vertebra, probablemente del cachorrito del desierto, Cyprinodon macularis, fue encontrado entre los fosiles paleontolgicos de la cuenca con elementos de charalito elegante y matalote jorobado. Cientos de formaciones rocosas en de forma U y V fueron encontradas por toda la cuenca en las orillas sucesivas del antiguo Lago Cahuilla y probablemente fueron usadas para capturar los peces.
10.2307/3672601|Gambusia affinis occupies a variety of waters, from those considered to be high quality to those of low environmental quality. Field studies show that G. affinis survives at least a week at one location in salinities over 41 ppt, total ammonia over 10 ppm, nitrates over 100 ppm, and dissolved oxygen below 1 ppm. /// Gambusia affinis ocupa una variedad de aguas, desde las que se consideran de alta calidad hasta las de baja calidad ambiental. Estudios de campo muestran que G. affinis sobrevive por lo menos una semana en una localidad con concentraciones salinas de ms de 41 ppt, amonio total ms de 10 ppm, y oxgeno disuelto menos de 1 ppm.
10.2307/3672367|Thirty-six plant taxa were identified from macrofossils and pollen in a late Holocene (1,770 years B.P.) woodrat (Neotoma) midden from a granite boulder field near Catavia, Baja California, Mexico. The fossils document the presence of Sonoran Desert (Viscaino subdivision) vegetation and a relatively modern climatic regime in the late Holocene. However, abundances and distributions of plants were different from today. Excluding rare Pinus pollen (long distance transport), only about 51% of the midden plants still occur within 100 m of the site. Another 8 species have moved into the area. Apparently, greater moisture allowed soil development on boulders and the expansion of plants, especially Prosopis glandulosa, away from the mesic washes. The modern climate is drier than 1,770 years ago. /// Treinta y seis taxa de plantas fueron identificados de macrofsiles y polen de un dposito de Neotoma proveniente de peas de granito cerca de Catavia, Baja California, Mxico. Los fsiles documentan la presencia de vegetacin del Desierto Sonorense (Subdivisin Viscaino) y un rgimen de clima relativamente moderno en el Holoceno tardo. Sin embargo, la abundancia y distribucin de las plantas estaban diferentes del tiempo presente. Excluyendo el polen raro de Pinus (transportado de una distancia larga), solamente cerca del 51% de las plantas del depsito de Neotoma continuan encontrndose dentro de 100 m del sitio. Otras 8 especies se han movido dentro del rea. Aparentemente una humedad mas grande permiti el desarrollo de suelo en las peas y la expansin de las plantas, especialmente Prosopis glandulosa, afuera de los arroyos msicos. La clima modernos son ms secos que hace 1,770 aos.
10.2307/3672368|The Neosho madtom (Noturus placidus) is listed as threatened by the federal government and the state of Kansas, and as endangered by the states of Missouri and Oklahoma. Understanding the biology of the Neosho madtom is critical for its recovery. We investigated length-frequency distribution and sex structure and compared habitat use by adult and young-of-year madtoms in the Neosho and Cottonwood rivers, Kansas, from August 1996 to September 1998. We sampled riffles, runs, pools, and backwaters, and measured current speed, water depth, and substrate compaction/composition at the location of capture for 443 fish. Operational sex ratios in the Cottonwood River were 1:1 but had a female-bias in the Neosho River. Length-frequency distributions showed only two age-classes, which suggests most Neosho madtoms breed at age 1 then die. We divided study sites into upper, middle, and lower sections to investigate location of adults during the breeding season. No significant difference in spatial distribution of adults among sections was observed and Neosho madtoms were not found in pools. Breeding adults were found more often in shallower areas with more loosely compacted substrate than non-breeding adults. In the Neosho River, young-of-year inhabited areas with significantly slower velocity, shallower depth, and lower substrate compaction than adults. Use of shallow areas with loosely compacted gravel by breeding adult and young-of-year N. placidus demonstrates the importance of such conditions, and the need for protection of these habitat conditions for maintenance of populations. /// Noturus placidus est en la lista de especies amenazadas del gobierno federal y del estado de Kansas, y como especie en peligro de extincin enlos estados de Missouri y Oklahoma. Enterder la biologa de N. placidus es crtico para su recuperacin. Investigamos la distribucin de su frecuencia-longitud y estructura sexual y coparamox uso de hbitat por adultos y juveniles del ao de N. placidus en los ros Neosho y Cottonwood, en Kansas, de agosto de 1996 a septiembre de 1998. Muestreamos cortacorrientes, corrientes, pozas, y remansos de ros, y medimos la velocidad de la corriente, profundidad del agua, y compresin/coposicin de sustrat en el lugar de captura de 443 deces. Las proporciones operacionales de sexo en el ro Cottonwood fueron 1:1 pero hubo una inclinacin hacia las hembras en el ro Neosho. Las distribuciones de frecuencia-longitud mostraron slo dos clases de edad, lo que sugiere que la mayora de N. placidus se aparea a dad de im ao y luego muere. Dividimos los sitios de estudio en secciones alta, median y baja para investigar la localizacin de los adultos durante la poca de apareamiento. No se observ una diferencia significativa en la distribucin espacial de adultos entre secciones y no se encontraron N. placidus en pozas. Adultos en reproduccin se encontraron ms frecuentemente en aguas poco profundas con sustrato mmenos compacto que adultos no reproduciendose. En el ro Neosho, juveniles del ao habitaron reas con significativamente menos velocidad, menos profundidad,y sustrato menos compacto que adultos. El uso de aguas poco profundas con grava poco compacta por los adultos en reproducin y juveniles del ao de N. placidus demuestra la importancia de esas condiciones, y la necesidad de proteger las condiciones de estos hbitats para el mantenimiento de las poblaciones.
10.2307/3672369|Ontogeny of Cichlasoma minckleyi was investigated with emphasis on development of the trophic polymorphism involving the pharyngeal apparatus. At about 6 days post fertilization (5.3 mm SL; standard length) the first skull elements that stained as ossified in cleared and stained specimens were isolated, pointed pharyngeal teeth; also at this time jaw teeth were developing on the premaxilla and dentary. By 10 days after fertilization (6.2 mm SL) ca. 27 (estimated 11 top and 16.5 bottom) finger-like, pointed papilliform pharyngeal teeth were ossified in all specimens as the quadrate, angular, dentary, coracoid, parasphenoid, premaxilla, and maxilla were also ossifying. The skull roof and surrounding structures remained unossified. All specimens younger than 100 days (30 mm SL) had only papilliform pharyngeal teeth. Molariform pharyngeal teeth were observed only in older, larger (30 to 65 mm SL) specimens. Offspring of a molariform x molariform cross included molariform, papilliform, and intermediate, pharyngeal morphologies. /// Se describe la ontogenia de Cichlasoma minckleyi, un cclido con un polimorfismo trfico de los dientes y aparato farngeos, con nfasis en los dientes farngeos. Aproximadamente 6 das despus de la fertilizacin (Longitud Patrn 5.3 mm), los dientes farngeos y sus precursores estn aparentes en especimenes aclarados y acolorados como dientes aislados y afilados; y son entre los primeros elementos del crneo a osificarse. Al mismo tiempo los dientes mandibulares aparecen en la maxila y la dentaria. A los 10 das despus de la fertilizacin (LP 6.2 mm), approximadamente 27 (11 superiores, 16.5 inferiores) dientes alargados y puntiados papiliformes estn osificados en el arco faringeal mientras se osifican tambin los huesos quadrate, angular, dentary, coracoid, parasphenoid, premaxila, y maxila. El techo del crneo y estructuras alredadores de el quedan sin osificar. En los especimenes con menos de tres meses de edad (LP 30 mm) se observaron nicamente dientes farngeales papiliformes. Dientes farngeales molariformes se observaron solo en especimenes ms grandes (LP 30-65 mm) y de mayor edad. Entre el progenie de parientes que eran ambos con dientes faringeales de tipo molariforme encontramos individuos con dientes molariformes, papiliformes e intermedios.
10.2307/3672370|Feeding ecology of 3 omnivorous fishes in a large southern United States reservoir was investigated to develop hypotheses on the potential functional roles of these species in this ecosystem. I examined distribution, abundance, and diet of smallmouth buffalo (Ictiobus bubalus), river carpsucker (Carpiodes carpio), and gizzard shad (Dorosoma cepedianum) relative to the availability of potential resources during summer 1997 and 1998. In July and August, abundance of smallmouth buffalo was significantly greater at stations with depths of 10 m than at 1 m or 3 m stations. There was no significant difference in abundance of gizzard shad or river carpsucker by depth or month. Relative proportions of detritus and zooplankton in the diet varied among species. Smallmouth buffalo primarily ate copepods, whereas gizzard shad primarily ate detritus. The diet of river carpsucker was intermediate in relative proportions of zooplankton and detritus to that of smallmouth buffalo and gizzard shad. Of the 3 species examined, only gizzard shad showed a significant decline in dietary crude protein, phosphorus, and organic content over the summer. This corresponded to a decline in condition of gizzard shad. Overall, benthic invertebrates had a heterogeneous distribution within the reservoir, and organic content of sediments was not different across sample stations. Relative importance to ecosystem functioning of these species, all of which are highly abundant in southern reservoirs, likely depends on species-specific feeding ecology and environmental conditions. /// La ecologa de tres peces omnivoras en una presa del sur de Estados Unidos fue investigada para desarrollar hiptesis del papel funcional potencial en este ecosistema. Yo examine la distribucin, abundancia, y dieta de Ictiobus bubalus, Carpiodes carpio, y Dorosoma cepedianum, relativo a la abundancia potencial de los recursos durante los veranos de 1997 y 1998. En julio y agosto la abundancia de Ictiobus bubalus fue significativamente mayor en los sitios con profundidades de 10 metros que en los sitios con 1 m o 3 m. de profundidad. No hay diferencias significativas en la abundancia de D. cepedianum o C. carpio por profundidad o por mes. Las proporciones relativas de detritus o zooplancton en la dieta fue variada entre las especies, Ictiobus bubalus come principalmente copepodes mientras que D. cepedianum come detritus. La dieta de C. carpio fue intermedia en proporciones relativas de zooplancton y detritus a la de I. bubalus y D. cepedianum. De las tres especies examinadas, solo D. cepedianum exhibi una reduccin diettica significativa de protena cruda, fsforo, y contenido orgnico durante el verano. Esto corresponde a un declive en la condicin de D. cepedianum. En general, los invertebrados bentnico tienen una distribucin heterognea dentro la presa y el contenido orgnico del sedimento no fue diferente a traves de los sitios de muestreo. La importancia relativa de estas especies en la funcionalidad del ecosistema, todas altamente abundantes en el lado sur del reservorio, probablemente depende de la relacin ecolgica de la alimentacin especie-especies y las condiciones ambiental.
10.2307/3672371|Increments were deposited in otoliths of laboratory-reared razorback suckers (Xyrauchen texanus) just after hatching in either fluctuating (16C  2.5C) or constant (16C) temperature treatments. Otolith increment counts of fish reared in fluctuating temperature were similar to the post hatch age of fish up to 49 days old and should be a reliable predictor of age. Otolith increment counts of fish reared in constant temperature underestimated age of fish up to 49 days old by 4 to 7 days. Total length of fish and otolith size (lapillus diameter) were similar among fish reared in constant or fluctuating treatments. Minimal variation of otolith increment counts and age estimates between readers suggests multiple counts may be unnecessary. Validation of patterns of regular increment deposition in otoliths of wild-caught razorback sucker larvae and early juveniles allows estimation of hatching dates and subsequent growth rates. Such information could be used to manage river flows and floodplain habitat critical to the survival and recovery of this endangered species. /// Incrementos fueron depositados en otolitos de crias de matalote jorobado (Xyrauchen texanus) en el laboratorio despus de eclosionarse en tratamientos de temperatura variable (16C  2.5C) o temperatura constante (16C). Conteos de incrementos de los otolitos de peces criados en temperatura variable fueron similares a la edad actual de 49 das, y por lo tanto, deben de proveer un prognstico seguro de edad. Conteos de incrementos de otolitos de peces criados en temperatura constante fueron hasta 4 a 7 menos de los 49 das de edad actual. El longitud del cuerpo entero, y dimetro del otolito (lapilus) fueron similares entre los dos tratamientos. La varianza mnima encontrada entre conteos de incrementos hechos por diferentes personas sugieren que conteos mltiples no sean necesarios. Tal validacin de pautas de deposicin de incrementos en otolitos de larvas y juveniles de matalote jorobado permite la estimacin en la naturaleza de fechas de eclosinar y tazas de crecimiento. Se podra usar esta informacin para el manejo de caudales de ros y manipulaciones de habitats, como inundacin de las llanuras de ros, que son tan importantes a la supervivencia y recuperacin de esta especie en peligro de extincin.
10.2307/3672372|Mud turtles (Kinosternon) are well-known for terrestrial activity and are commonly found in isolated, ephemeral bodies of water. I report on the demography and movements of the Sonoran mud turtle (Kinosternon sonoriense) in an intermittent mountain stream and stock tank in southwestern New Mexico. Since October 1994, 8 sampling trips, each lasting 1 to 5 days, have been made to the site. During each trip, extensive sampling by hand in the small pools in the stream and extensive hoop netting in the stock tank have been conducted. To date, there have been 489 captures of 274 individuals. Average population size was 212 individuals. Maximum population densities exceeded 3,000 individuals/ha, which are among the highest values ever reported for a freshwater turtle. Individuals frequently undergo long terrestrial movements within the study area. Thirteen individuals have moved distances of at least 1 km, and 26% of all individuals that have been captured at least twice have moved overland, along the basin, between the stock tank and the pools. Despite intensive sampling, we have never captured more than 31% of marked turtles in the population during a sampling period. These low recapture rates may be due to a combination of factors, including inefficient sampling, mortality, estivation, and vagility. /// Tortugas de barro (Kinosternon) son bien conocidas por sus actividades terrestres y son comnmente encontradas en aislados cuerpos de agua efmeros. Sin embargo, estudios previos sugieren que la tortuga de barro de Sonora (Kinosternon sonoriense) requiere agua permanentemente y es estrictamente acutica. Aqu presento datos sobre la demografa y movimiento de la tortuga de barro de Sonora en una quebrada intermitente y en un tanque de deposito en el suroeste de Nuevo Mxico. Desde octubre de 1994, se han hecho ocho viajes de muestreos al rea de estudio, cada uno de uno a cinco das de duracin. Durante cada viaje se hicieron extensivo muestreo a mano en los pozos pequeos de la quebrada y extensivo trampeo con redes de aro en el tanque de depsito. Hasta el presente se han efectuado 489 capturas de 274 ejemplares. La poblacin promedio estimada es de 212 individuos. Las densidades poblacionales mximas son ms de 3.000 individuos/ha, es decir, entre los valores ms altos reportados para tortugas de agua dulce. Los individuos frecuentemente ejecutan largos movimientos por tierra dentro del rea de estudio. Trece individuos se han trasladado distancias de al menos 1 km, y 26% de los individuos que han sido capturado por lo menos dos veces se han trasladado por tierra, a lo largo de la quebrada, entre el tanque de depsito y los pozos. A pesar del muestreo intensivo no se ha podido capturar mas del 31% de los animales marcados en la poblacin durante un slo perodo de muestreo. Esta baja tasa de capturas puede ser por una combinacin de varios factores incluyendo ineficiencia del muestreo, mortalidad, estivacin y capacidad de dispersion.
10.2307/3672373|Using radio-telemetry, we evaluate and discuss effects of a prescribed fire in a Madrean community on mortality, behavior, and habitat of 3 rattlesnake species. Eight snakes exposed to low intensity fire survived, whereas a snake exposed to intense fire died. Spatial descriptors of activity did not significantly differ before versus after the fire; however, individuals moved significantly less frequently and were found in subterranean retreats more frequently after the fire than before the fire. Wooded canyons and wooded steep slopes burned intensely because of high fuel accumulation, resulting in habitat loss for Crotalus willardi obscurus. Reintroduction of fire is essential in maintaining a mosaic of habitats and ecosystem function. Prior to reintroduction of largescale summer fires, consideration should be given to reducing artificially high fuel loads to preserve C. w. obscurus habitat and reduce mortality. /// Usando radio-telemetra, evaluamos mortalidad y comportamiento de serpientes de cascabel en relacin a un incendio premeditado en una comunidad Madreana. Ocho individuos expuestos a fuego de baja intensidad sobrevivieron, mientras que uno expuesto a fuego intenso muri. Los descriptores espaciales de actividad no fueron significativamente diferentes antes y despus del incendio. Sin embargo, los individuos se movieron con una frecuencia significativamente menor y fueron encontrados ms frecuentemente en refugios subterrneos despus del incendio que antes del mismo. Las caadas y las laderas arboladas con pendiente pronunciada se incendiaron intensamente debido a la alta acumulacin de combustible, resultando en una prdida de habitat para Crotalus willardi obscurus. La reintroduccin del fuego es esencial en el mantenimiento un mosaico de habitat y funciones de ecosistemas. Sin embargo, previamente a la reintroduccin de incendios de verano de gran escala, se le debe de dar consideracin a la reduccin artificial de grandes cargas de combustible para preservar el habitat de C. w. obscurus y reducir su mortalidad.
10.2307/3672374|The Chiricahua fox squirrel (Sciurus nayaritensis chiricahuae) is restricted to montane forests of the Chiricahua Mountains of southeastern Arizona. We used observations of focal animals to determine the diet of squirrels during summer and winter. Chiricahua fox squirrels feed heavily on seeds of trees, berries of mistletoe, and hypogeous fungi. Diets were most diverse in summer for males, whereas females did not demonstrate significant seasonality of diet. Daily diets were more diverse than reported for other tree squirrels. As in other tree squirrels, Chiricahua fox squirrels appear to be highly dependent on mature forest trees for food. /// La ardilla Sciurus nayaritensis chiricahuae est restringida a los bosques montaosos de las Chiricahua Mountains del sureste de Arizona. Hicimos observaciones focales de animales para detallar la dieta de las ardillas durante el verano y el invierno. Sciurus nayaritensis chiricahuae se alimenta principalmentede semillas de rboles, as como de bayas de murdago y hongos hipogeos. Las dietas fueron ms diversas en el verano para los machos, mientras que la hembras no demostraron un temporalidad de deita significativa; las dietas diarias fueron ms diversas que las reportadas para otras ardillas. Como en las otras ardillas, Sciurus nayaritensis chiricahuae parece ser altamente dependiente de rboles maduros de bosques para su manutencion.
10.2307/3672375|I examined spatiotemporal variation in abundance of rodents at the Elk Hills Naval Petroleum Reserve, California through annual live-trapping on 20 sites in 4 physiographic regions from 1993 to 1996. Five species of rodents at Elk Hills are considered rare, but habitat characteristics favorable for these species have not been identified. Abundance for all species combined varied among years and among regions. Capture rates varied temporally for Heermann's and shortnosed kangaroo rats (Dipodomys heermanni and D. nitratoides brevinasus), San Joaquin pocket mice (Perognathus inornatus), and San Joaquin antelope squirrels (Ammospermophilus nelsoni), but not for Tulare grasshopper mice (Onychomys torridus tularensis) or deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus). Capture rates varied spatially for all species except pocket mice. Heermann's and short-nosed kangaroo rats declined in abundance, particularly in flat terrain, following unusually wet, cold conditions in winter 1994-1995. Pocket mice increased in 1995 but declined in 1996. San Joaquin antelope squirrels steadily declined during the study period. Abundance of grasshopper mice was low but consistent throughout the period. Rodent capture rates were more variable in flat terrain (5% slope) where rare species were most abundant. Capture rates for Heermann's kangaroo rats, shortnosed kangaroo rats, and antelope squirrels were negatively correlated to vegetation cover, particularly grasses, but capture rates for pocket mice were positively correlated with cover, particularly forbs. Based on the spatiotemporal patterns in rodent abundance observed at Elk Hills, flat terrain is particularly important for conserving rare rodents in the southern San Joaquin Valley of California. Flat terrain will need to be actively managed to reduce the dense cover of exotic plants that may be detrimental to rare rodents. /// La variacin espaciotemporal en la abundancia de roedores fu examinada a travs del trampeo anual en 20 sitios de 4 regiones fisiogrficas en la Reserva de Petrleo Nacional Elk Hills, California, de 1993 a 1996. Cinco especies de roedores en Elk Hills se consideran raras. La abundancia para todas las especies combinadas vari entre aos y entre regiones. La captura de ratas vari temporalmente para las ratas canguro Heermann y nariz corta (Dipodomys heermanni y D. nitratoides brevinasus), los ratones de bolsillos de San Joaqun (Perognathus inornatus), y las ardillas antlope de San Joaquin (Ammospermophilus nelsoni), pero no para los ratones saltamontes de Tulare (Onychomys torridus tularensis) o los ratones de venados (Peromyscus maniculatus). La captura de ratas vari espacialmente para todas las especies, excepto para los ratones de bolsillos. Las ratas canguro Heermann y nariz corta declinon en abundancia, particularmente en terrenos planos, despus de condiciones inusualmente hmedas y fras durante el invierno de 1994-95. Los ratones de bolsillos se increment en 1995, pero continu otra vez en 1996. Las ardillas antlope declinaron continuamente durante el perodo de estudio. La abundancia del ratn saltamontes fu consitentemente baja a travs del perodo de estudio. Los rangos de captura de roedores fueron mas variables en terrenos planos (pendiente 5%) donde las especies raras son ms abundantes. La captura de ratas canguro Heermann, ratas canguro de nariz corta, y las ardillas antlope estuvieron negativamente correlacionadas a la cobertura de vegetacin, particularmente de zacates, mientras que la captura del ratn de bolsillo estuvo positivamente correlacionada con la cobertura, principalmente de herbceas. Basados en los patrones espaciotemporales de la abundancia de roedores observados en Elk Hills, consideramos que el terreno plano es de particular importancia en la conservacin de roedores en el sur del Valle de San Joaqun, California. En adicin, este tipo de hbitat necesita estar manejado activamente para reducir la densa cobertura de plantas exticas que puede ser detrimental para los roedores raros.
10.2307/3672376|Reliable estimates of survival and mortality rates for mountain lions (Puma concolor) have been difficult to obtain because of their low densities and secretive behavior. We estimated annual survival and cause-specific mortality rates for a heavily exploited mountain lion population in southeastern Arizona from February 1991 to April 1994. We monitored 24 adult radio-collared mountain lions weekly. We used MICROMORT to determine daily, annual, and overall survival rates. Radio-collared mountain lions had low annual survival (0.62). Depredation control was the leading cause of mortality. Survival rates of female (0.67) and male (0.58) lions did not differ. Because of the high mortality in the area of depredation control, this area may represent a mortality sink. /// La medida de estimacin segura de la supervivencia y mortalidad de grandes carnivores como el len de montaa (Puma concolor) ah sido dificil de obtener por la baja densidad y el comportamiento secretivo. Estimamos la supervivencia anual y la causa especifica de la medida de mortalidad de una populacin de Len de Montaa muy explotada en el sureste del estado de Arizona demes de Febrero 1991 a Abril 1994. Vigilamos 24 leones de montana equipados con collares de frequencia de radio, una vez por semana. MICROMORT fue usado para determinar la medida de supervivencia diaria, annual, y sobrtotal. Leones de montaa equipados con collars de frequencia de radio en el area del estudio tubieron una supervivencia anual baja (0.62). El control de depredacin fue la mayor causa de mortalidad. La medida de supervivencia de las hembras (0.67) y machos (0.58) leones no diferenciaron. Porque la alta mortalidad en el area de depredacion controlada, creemos que esta area pueda representar una depreion en el nirel mortalidad.
10.2307/3672377|We examined the efficacy of a mitigation project in Avra Valley, Arizona, established to provide wildlife access across the barrier created by a canal, the Central Arizona Project (CAP). We monitored movements of 17 radio-collared desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) to determine if deer were using the corridor for access across the canal and the 26-km wide valley. We also determined frequency of corridor use by desert mule deer relative to surrounding lands. Four deer crossed the canal but stayed within 500 m of the crossing site. One deer traversed the valley via the corridor. Two of these deer used crossing areas not in the designated corridor. Overall, 22.4% of deer locations were in the corridor. The corridor currently serves as a link with other undeveloped lands to provide movement for animals seeking to cross Avra Valley, but some lands outside the corridor are scheduled for development for agriculture. With increasing pressures from an urban population, the corridor may prove to be of greater value in the future. /// Nosotros investigamos la eficacia del proyecto de mitigacin en el Valle Avra, Arizona fue establecido para proveer acceso a la fauna silvestre atravs de la barrera creada por el canal del Proyecto Central de Arizona (PCA). Nosotros monitriamos los movimeientos de 17 venados del desierto (Odocoileus heminous eremicus) con radio-collares para determinar si estos estuvieron usando el corredor y los 26 km de valle. Tambien determinamos la frecuencia de uso del corredor por la especie en relacion a los reas adyacentes. Cuatro venados cruzaron el canal pero se mantuvieron dentro de una reas adyacentes. Cuatro venados cruzaron el valle haciendo uso del corredor. Dos de los cinco venados cruzaron otras areas per sin la ayuda de este corredor. Del total, 22.4% de los localizaciones fueron registradas en el corredor. Acutalmente, el corredor sirve como un enlace con otras reas no desarrolladas para proveer movimiento para los animales que buscan cruzar el Valle Avra, pero se espera que algunas reas dentro de este corredor sean dedicadas a la agricultura. Con la presion ejercida pro una poblacin urbana se prueba que este corredor puede tener un valor mas grande en el futuro como un pequeo refugio para fauna que como un enlace con otras reas.
10.2307/3672378|Capture and translocation of mountain sheep is an expensive and complex process. During 1989 to 1990, we evaluated 2 methods of translocating mountain sheep (Ovis canadensis): 1) transport via helicopter followed by retention in a holding pen prior to release, and 2) direct release from a vehicle immediately following ground transport. We compared group dispersal and cohesion, and survival of groups of animals translocated concurrently to the Chuckwalla Mountains, California using each technique. Both groups developed similar measures of group dispersal and cohesion by the fourth month following translocation. Seventy percent of animals released directly from the truck and 30% of animals released from the holding pen survived 12 months. Behavior of animals was not impacted by additional handling and aerial transport associated with the holding pen. Nevertheless, increased handling times and greater exposure to helicopter noise endured by the penned animals may have affected survivorship. No apparent advantages were gained by animals held in the pen prior to release, and this technique may have exacerbated mortality. /// La captura y traslado de la oveja de montaa es un proceso costoso y complicado. Durante 1989-90 evaluamos 2 mtodos para trasladar la oveja de montaa (Ovis canadensis): 1. Transporte via helicptero seguido de reclusin en corrales antes de liberarlos y 2. Liberacin directa, desde el vehculo inmediatamente despus del transporte terrestre. Comparamos la dispersin y cohesin y la sobrevivencia de los grupos de animales trasladados actualmente en las montaas Chuckwalla, California utilizando ambos mtodos. Ambos grupos desarrollaron similares medidas de dispersin de grupo y cohesin hasta el cuarto mes despus del traslado. Setenta por ciento de los animales liberados desde el vehculo y trienta por ciento de los animales liberados desde el corral sobrevivieron 12 meses. El comportamiento de los animales no fue impactado con el manejo adicional y transporte areo asociados con la retencin en el corral. Sin embargo, un aumento en el tiempo de manejo de los animales y mayor exposicin al rudio del helicptero experimentados por los animales detenidos en el corral pudo haber tenido un effecto en su sobrevivencia. Ninguna ventaja aparente fue obtenida por los animales recluidos en el corral antes de su liberacin y est mtodo pudo haber aumentado la mortalidad.
10.2307/3672522|Size distributions of Cyprinodon macularius eremus (Quitobaquito pupfish) were compared and contrasted from spring, channel, island, and pond habitats of Quitobaquito Springs (Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, Arizona) during October 1996 through October 1997. The following year, adult pupfish were marked en masse by application of fluorescent grit via air pressure. An average population estimate of 9,556 pupfish was derived for the entire spring complex, and a mean estimate of 591 pupfish was calculated separately for spring and channel habitats. During spring and early summer, movements by pupfish from the thermal (26C) environment of the spring and channel into the ambient pond were virtually non-existent. This suggests the 2 habitats may be more segregated than originally thought. Potential establishment of a second population of endangered Quitobaquito pupfish is discussed. /// Se compararon y contrastaron las distribuciones de tamao del Cyprinodon macularius eremus (Quitobaquito pez cachorrito) en hbitats como manantial, canal, isla y poza de Quitobaquito Springs (Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, Arizona) de octubre de 1996 a octubre de 1997. En ao siquiente adultos de pez cachorrito fueron marcados en masa con la aplicacin de un polvo fluorescente por medio de presin del aire. Una poblacin promedio estimada de 9,556 de pez cachorrito fue derivada para todo el complejo de pozas, mientras que un promedio estimado de 591 fue calculado separadamente para los hbitats manantial y canal. Durante la primavera y principios de verano, el movimiento del pez cachorrito de los medios ambientes trmicos (26C) del manantial y del canal hacia la poza circundante es virtualmente inexistente. Esto sugiere que los dos hbitats pueden estar ms segregados de lo que originalmente se pens. El posible establecimiento de una segunda poblacin del Quitobaquito pez cachorrito en peligro de extincin es discutido.
10.2307/3672523|We provide the first ecological account of the alligator gar, Atractosteus spatula, in the Vicente Guerrero Reservoir, Tamaulipas, Mxico. During March to September, 1998, the local fishery cooperative captured more than 23,000 kg of alligator gar from the reservoir. A random sample of their catch was dominated by males, which were significantly smaller than females. Males and females had similar weight-length relationships. Relative testicular weight varied little seasonally, but relative ovarian weight showed a strong seasonal pattern that indicated peak spawning activity during July and August. Body condition of both sexes also varied in a pattern consistent with late summer spawning. Fishing for alligator gar virtually ceased from October to February, when nonreproductive individuals were presumed to move offshore to deeper water. Alligator gar fed primarily on largemouth bass, Micropterus salmoides, and less frequently on other fishes. The gillnet fishery for alligator gar in the reservoir appears to be based primarily on individuals that move into shallow, shoreline areas to spawn. Males probably remain in these habitats longer than females. The dominance of largemouth bass in the alligator gar diet reflects this centrarchid's high occurrence in littoral habitats of the reservoir, and the diet of alligator gar inhabiting deeper habitats of the reservoir could be different. /// Son aportados por primera vez algunos aspectos ecolgicos del catn, Atractosteus spatula, en la represa de la Presa Vicente Guerrero, Tamaulipas, Mxico. El trabajo fue desarrollado durante el perodo de marzo-septiembre de 1998, en el cual las cooperativas pesqueras locales capturaron ms de 23,000 kg de catn de la represa. La captura estuvo dominada por machos, los cuales fueron ms pequeos que las hembras. Ambos sexos registraron una relacin pesolongitud similar. El peso relativo de los ovarios mostr un fuerte patrn estacional no asi el peso relativo de los testculos, los cuales exhibieron poca variacin estacional. En ambos sexos el coeficiente de condicin vari mensualmente, indicando un pico de actividad de desove durante julio-agosto. La pesca de catn disminuy virtualmente de octubre a febrero, cuando el catn no se reproduce y se presume que migra de la zona litoral hasta los sitios ms profundas de la represa. El catn se aliment principalmente de la lobina negra, Micropterus salmoides, y en menor porcentaje de otros peces. La pesca de catn con redes agelleras en esta represa, se confina a individuos que se desplanza las zonas litorales someras en donde ocurre el desove. Los machos probablemente permanecen ms tiempo en estos hbitats que las hembras. La dominancia de la lobina negra en la dieta del catn refleja la alta incidencia del centrrquido en hbitats litorales de la represa, siendo la dieta del catn de aguas profundas de la represa probablemente diferente.
10.2307/3672524|Zuni bluehead sucker, Catostomus discobolus yarrowi, is endemic to the Little Colorado River drainage of west-central New Mexico and east-central Arizona. The extent of its historical distribution is uncertain, but included several tributaries of the Little Colorado River upstream of Grand Falls, Arizona; origin of the taxon is ambiguous and contributes to poor definition of its former distribution. Fish eradication efforts in the 1960s eliminated the subspecies from portions of the Zuni River drainage in New Mexico. Surveys in New Mexico during 1990 through 1993 found it in about 15 km of Ro Nutria headwaters. Zuni bluehead sucker persists where habitat degradation (channel incision and sedimentation) is limited and nonnative fishes (particularly Lepomis cyanellus) are rare or absent. Seasonally dry channels and low waterfalls limited movement among headwaters. We found the sucker most commonly in low-velocity (<10 cm/sec), moderately deep (0.3 to 0.5 m) pools and pool-runs with seasonally dense perilithic and periphytic algae. Life history studies (1994 and 1995) documented reproduction in spring (April through early June) when water temperature was 6 to 13C. Based on length-frequency data, some individuals matured by age 1 and most were mature by age 2. Females typically produced 400 to 600 ova annually; spawning may be bimodal, with most occurring early in the season. Individuals may attain 50 to 60 mm SL in their first year (age 0), thereafter growth is about 30 to 40 mm per year. Few suckers were >150 mm SL and most individuals were age 3; few survived to age 4. Survival of Zuni bluehead sucker without intensification and expansion of current conservation efforts is doubtful. /// El matalote de cabeza azul del Zuni, Catostomus discobolus yarrowi, es una especie endmica de la cuenca del Ro Little Colorado de la parte oeste-central del estado de Nuevo Mxico y la parte oriente-central de Arizona. La amplitud de su distribucin histrica no es bien conocida, pero incluy tributarios del Ro Little Colorado arriba de Grand Falls, Arizona. El origen del taxn es ambigo y contribuye a la definicin inadecuada de su distribucin histrica. Esfuerzos para erradicar peces en la dcado de los 1960 elminaron la subespecie de partes de la cuenca del Ro Zuni en Nuevo Mxico. Muestreos en Nuevo Mxico durante de 1990 a 1993 la encontraron en aproximadamente 15 km de los nascientes del Ro Nutria. El matalote de cabeza azul del Zuni persiste donde la degradacin del hbitat (incisin del cauce y sedimentacin) es limitada y peces no nativos (particularmente Lepomis cyanellus) son raros o ausentes. Cauces que se secan y cascadas bajas limitaron movimiento entre los arroyos de los nascientes. Encontramos al matalote tpicamente en pozas de baja velocidad (<10 cm/sec), profundidades moderadas (0.3 a 0.5 m) y en corridas ("runs") con algas perifticas y perilticas estacionalmente densas. Estudios de historia de vida (1994 y 1995) documentaron la reproduccin en la primavera (abril a principios de junio) cuando la temperatura del agua estaba entre 6 a 13C. Basado en datos de frecuencias de tallas, algunos individuos maduraron en su primer ao, y la mayora madur en ao 2. Las hembras produjeron tpicamente de 400 a 600 huevos anuales; el desove puede ser bimodal, con la mayora desovando temprano en la poca. Individuos alcanzan de 50 a 60 mm LE en su primer ao (edad 0), y despus el crecimiento es aproximadamente de 30 a 40 mm/ ao. Pocos matalotes sobrepasaron 150 mm LE y la mayora era de menos de 3 aos de edad; pocos sobrevivieron a la edad 4. La persistencia del matalote de cabeza azul del Zuni es dudosa sin que se intensifiquen y se aumenten los esfuerzos actuales de conservacin.
10.2307/3672525|Species diversity and abundance of reptiles and amphibians were measured on and off black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies to determine the extent to which herpetological species composition in a shortgrass prairie ecosystem is affected by presence of blacktailed prairie dog colonies. Ten species of reptiles and 3 species of amphibians were captured. Total amphibian and reptile abundance did not differ between prairie dog colonies and noncolonized shortgrass prairie sites, but species composition did. Mean species richness, evenness, and diversity for reptiles and amphibians were not different between treatments; however, diversity of both treatments combined was considerably higher than diversity on shortgrass prairie without prairie dogs. The mosaic pattern of prairie dog colonies enhances landscape heterogeneity and contributes to greater reptile and amphibian diversity in the shortgrass prairie biome of western Kansas. /// Se midieron la diversidad y la abundancia de los reptiles y anfibios dentro y fuera de colonias de perritos llaneros de cola negra (Cynomys ludovicianus) para determinar hasta qu punto la presencia de las colonias influye en las especies de herpetolgicas en un ecosistema de hierba corta. Diez especies de reptiles y tres de anfibios fueron capturadas. La abundancia total de stos animales fue igual dentro de las colonias como en los sitios no colonizados, pero la composicin de las especies fue diferente. El promedio de la riqueza, la diversidad, y el emparejamiento de las especies herpetolgicas no difer entre los tratamientos. Sin embargo, hubo mayor diversidad en ambos tratamientos combinados que en pradera de hierba corta sin perritos llaneros. El patrn mosaico de las colonias de perritos llaneros aumenta la heterogeneidad del paisaje y contribuye a una diversidad ms amplia de reptiles y anfibios en el ecosistema de hierba corta en el oeste de Kansas.
10.2307/3672526|We monitored movements of 20 (12 males, 8 females) adult opossums (Didelphis virginiana) from January 1996 to February 1999 on Fort Riley Military Reservation, Kansas, to determine survival rates and compare home range sizes between males and females. Annual survival rates during the 3-year study were relatively low (17 to 25%). Predation by coyotes (Canis latrans), which occurred primarily in late winter and early spring, was the largest cause of mortality (65%). Although body sizes were similar between sexes, mean home range size of male opossums (114 ha) was larger than females (57 ha), and mean capture-to-death distance of males (1.23 km) was greater than females (0.35 km). /// Se evaluaron los movimientos de 20 (12 machos, 8 hembras) tlacuaches (Didelphis virginiana) adultos de enero de 1996 a Febrero de 1999, en la reserva militar Fort Riley, Kansas para determinar la tasa de sobrevivencia y comparar el tamao del rango de hogar entre machos y hembras. Las tasas anuales de sobrevivencia fueron relativamente bajas (17-25%) durante los tres aos del estudio. La causa principal de la mortalidad fue por la depredacin (65%) por coyotes (Canis latrans), la cul ocurri principalmente a fines del invierno y principios de la primavera. Aunque el tamao corporal de ambos sexos fue similar, el tamao promedio del rango de hogar de los machos (114 ha) fue ms grande que el de las hembras (57 ha), y las distancias promedio recorridas por (de la captura hasta la muerte) los machos (1.23 km) fueron mayores que las de las hembras (0.35 km).
10.2307/3672527|In an effort to expand our knowledge of the ecology of feral horses (Equus caballus), we initiated a study of the Montgomery Pass Wild Horse Territory (MPWHT), located along the California-Nevada border at the northern end of the White Mountains. We report on 11 years (1987-1997) of data on numbers, productivity, and survivorship of the feral horse population in the MPWHT. The majority of the MPWHT is located in pinyon-juniper (Pinus-Juniperus) woodland. The adult horse population averaged 150 individuals, with a significant decrease occurring across the study. The number of foals born ranged between 29 and 35 through 1993, dropped to 22 to 24 for 1994-1996, and rebounded to 31 in 1997. Although mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) are the primary prey of mountain lions (Felis concolor), extensive predation on foals occurred in MPWHT. The average number of foals killed each year by mountain lions was 13.5 (45.1% of foals produced). There was a significant difference in the proportion of foals killed by coat color relative to the distribution of colors born into the population. Annual survival (May to April) rate for foals averaged 0.32, ranging from a low of 0.23 during 1987-1988, to a high of 0.48 in 1996-1997. Yearling survival averaged 0.88, ranging from a low of 0.5 in 1994-1995, to a high of 1.0 in 5 of the annual periods. Adult survivorship averaged 0.92, ranging from a low of 0.81 in 1992-1993, to a high of 1.0 in 4 of the annual periods. The lion population was 4 to 5 from 1987 through 1991, increased to 8 in 1992, and then slowly decreased through 1996. Number of lions dropped to 3 animals in 1997. The resident mountain lion population is significantly influencing number of horses in the MPWHT, primarily through predation of foals. Increased foal survival during the latter part of our study, and especially during 1997, was apparently related to a substantial decrease in number of lions. /// En un intento de ampliar nuestro conocimiento de la ecologa de los caballos salvejas (Equus caballus) iniciamos un estudio del Territorio de los Caballos Montgomery Pass Wild Horse Territory (MPWHT), localizada al noroeste de las Montaas Blancas a lo largo de la frontera de los estados de California y Nevada. Reportamos 11 aos de datos entre 1987-1997 de la abundancia, la productividad, y la sobrevivencia en la poblacin de los caballos salvajes en el MPWHT. La mayora del MPWHT esta localizada en bosques pion-cedro (Pinus-Juniperus). El promedio del tamao de la poblacin de caballos adultos fue de 150 individuos, con una significativa disminucin a travs del estudio. El nmero aproximado de cras nacidas fue entre 29 y 35 durante 1993, disminuy a 22-24 en 1994-1996, y aument despus a 31 en 1997. Aunque el venado mula (Odocoileus hemionus) es la presa principal del len de la montaa (Felis concolor), depredacin extensiva de las cras ocurri en MPWHT. El promedio de cras matadas en cada ao por leones de la montaa fue 13.5 ( 45.1% de las cras producidas). Hubo una diferencia significativa en la proporcin de cras matadas por el color de la piel en relacion a la distribucin de colores nacidos en la poblacin. La tasa de sobrevivencia anual de (de mayo a abril) para cras fue un promedio de 0.32, de una tasa mnimade 0.32 cras sobrevivientes 0.23 a 0.24 durante 1987-1989, a un a mxima de 0.48 en 1996-1997. El promedio de la sobrevivencia de los jovenes de un ao fue anual 0.88 de un mnimo de 0.5 en 1994-1995, a un mximo de 1.0 en 5 perodos anuales. El promedio de la sobrevivencial anual de los adultos fue 0.92, de un mnimo de 0.81 en 1992-1993 a un mximo de 1.0 en 4 perodos anuales. La poblacin de los leones fue de 4-5 animales de 1987 a 1991, aument a 8 animales en 1992, despus disminuy lentamente a hasta 1996. La poblacin baj a 3 animales en 1997. Nuestro estudio indica que la poblacion residente del len de la montaa influye significativamente en el nmero de caballos en el MPWHT, principalmente por la depredacin de las cras. La mejor sobrevivencia de las cras durante la ltima parte de nuestro estudio, especialmente during 1997, a lo mejor serelaciono a la sustancial diminucin de nmero de los leones.
10.2307/3672528|Fifteen canyons on the Coronado National Forest in southeastern Arizona were sampled to study the woody riparian overstory. Vegetation and environmental data were collected from 99 high elevation (>1,050 m) sites. Vegetation data included diameter at breast height of each woody tree and root collar diameter of each woody shrub within the sample plots. Environmental site data included elevation, stream gradient, stream width and depth, terrace height, stream direction, and watershed area. Vegetation data for each site were classified into 1 of 6 possible community types using an average linkage/euclidean distance clustering algorithm. In the high elevation (>1,050 m) study areas, dominant riparian community vegetation includes shrub species such as Baccharis and facultative upland species such as Abies, Acer, Juniperus, and Quercus. Platanus and Salix were also commonly found, but Populus was rare. /// Se presentan los resultados de un estudio del dosel ripario en 15 hondonadas en el Bosque Nacional del Colorado en el sudeste de Arizona. Se obtuvieron datos ambientales y vegetacionales en 99 localidades de tierra alta >1,050 m. Los datos vegetacionales incluyeron el dimetro a la altura del pecho para cada rbol y dimetro basal de la raz para cada arbusto en cada una de las parcelas del estudio. Los datos ambientales incluyeron elevacin, gradiente del riachuelo, profundidad y ancho del riachuelo, altura de la terraza, direccin de flujo, y rea total de la cuenca. Los datos vegetacionales para cada parcela se asignaron a uno de seis tipos de comunidades utilizando el algoritmo de distancia euclidiana del mtado en laces promedio. Este estudio revel que en comunidades riparias de altas elevaciones (1,050 m) la vegetacin dominante incluye especies arbustivas como Bacharis, as como especies facultativas de tierra alta de los gneros Abies, Acer, Juniperus, y Quercus. Otros dos gneros (Platanus y Salix) se encontraron comunmente, pero Populus fue raro.
10.2307/3672422|I examined 4 components of pollination of the organ-pipe cactus, Stenocereus thurberi, by bats and hummingbirds. I quantified amount of pollen deposited per flower visit by bats and hummingbirds on stigmas of conspecifics, estimated amounts of pollen transferred per visit, examined variability in pollinator success within and among flowering seasons of S. thurberi, and determined levels of pollen-mediated gene flow. Both bats and hummingbirds deposit large quantities of pollen on a per visit basis. Pollinator exclusion experiments indicate that proportion of fruits produced by hummingbird pollination was constant in spring 1992 and 1993, but that of bats was significantly greater in 1993 than in 1992. I compared results obtained in spring of 1992 and 1993 with those obtained from a previous 2 year study, and found that, in all 4 years, proportion of fruits produced by hummingbird pollination remained constant, but proportion of bat pollinated fruits varied significantly. During 1993, fruit production attributable to both bats and hummingbirds dropped significantly in late June relative to spring, after peak flowering. Variability in fruit-set by control flowers is likely due to variability in bat pollination events. Paternity exclusion analysis of cactus seeds indicated that most paternal gametes probably came from within 75 m, although substantial amounts of gene flow came from beyond 125 and 150 m for the 2 S. thurberi populations studied. /// Se examinaron 4 componentes de la polinizacin realizada por murcilagos y colibres en el cactus columnar Stenocereus thurberi. Se cuantific la cantidad de polen depositado por visita por murcilagos y colibres en los estigmas, se estim la cantidad de polen transferido por visita, se examin la variabilidad en el xito de la polinizacin dentro y entre estaciones de florecimiento de S. thurberi, y se determinaron los niveles de flujo de genes a travs de polen. Los murcilagos y colibres depositan grandes cantidades de polen por visita. Experimentos de exclusin de polinizadores indican que la proporcin de frutos producidos por polinizacin de colibres fue constante en la primavera de 1992 y 1993, mientras que para los murcilagos fue significativamente mayor en 1993 que en 1992. Los resultados obtenidos en la primavera de 1992 y 1993 fueron comparados con resultados obtenidos anteriormente en un estudio de 2 aos y se encontr que en los 4 aos la proporcin de frutos producidos por la polinizacin por colibres fue constante, mientras que la proporcin de frutos producidos por la polizacin por murcilagos vari significativamente. Durante 1993, la produccin de frutos debida a la polinizacin por murcilagos y colibres disminuy significativamente en junio tardo relativo a la primavera, despus del pico de floracin. Variabilidad en la taza de produccin de frutos obtenidos por el tratamiento de control probablemente se debe a variabilidad de polinizacin por murcilagos. El anlisis de exclusin de paternidad de semillas de este cactus indica que la mayora de los gametos paternales podran haber llegado desde 75 m de distancia aunque un flujo sustancial de genes es desde ms de 125 y los 150 m para las poblaciones de S. thurberi estudiadas.
10.2307/3672423|Larger seeds have been shown to convey benefits for seedling survival but the mechanisms of this process are not well understood. In this study, seed size and seedling survival were compared for 2 sympatric cactus species, Carnegiea gigantea (Engelm.) Britt. & Rose and Ferocactus wislizeni (Engelm.) Britt. & Rose, in laboratory and field experiments in the northern Sonoran Desert. Both species have small seeds, but Ferocactus seeds are nearly twice as long and 3 times as heavy as those of Carnegiea. The difference in size is perpetuated after germination: new Ferocactus seedlings have 4 times the estimated volume of new Carnegiea seedlings. In an outdoor experiment, annual survivorship of both species was low but was 6 times higher for Ferocactus (6 seedlings, 8.1%) than Carnegiea (1 seedling, 1.4%). The pattern of seedling mortality in relation to temperature and rain suggests that, after the initial flush of seed and seedling predation, drought and heat took a greater toll on Carnegiea than Ferocactus seedlings, probably because the larger seedling volume of Ferocactus conferred greater drought tolerance. In addition, F. wislizeni could become established without benefit of nurse plants whereas C. gigantea could not; this might reflect differential tolerance to high soil temperatures. /// Se ha sido mostrado que las semillas ms grandes tienen ventajas en la sobrevivencia de las plntulas pero no se entienden bien los mecanismos de este proceso. En este estudio, se compararon el tamao de las semillas con la sobrevivencia de las plntulas de 2 especies simptricas de cactceas, Carnegiea gigantea (Engelm.) Britt. & Rose y Ferocactus wislizeni (Engelm.) Britt. & Rose, en experimentos del laboratorio y del campo en el norte del desierto de Sonora. Ambas especies tienen semillas pequeas, pero las de Ferocactus son casi 2 veces ms largas y 3 veces ms pesadas que las de Carnegiea. La diferencia en el tamao sigue despus de la germinacin: nuevas plntulas de Ferocactus tienen volumenes 4 veces ms que los de nuevas plntulas de Carnegiea. En un experimento al aire libre la sobrevivencia fue baja pero fue anual de ambas especies, 6 veces ms alta para plntulas de Ferocactus (6 plntulas, 8.1%) que las de Carnegiea (1 plntula, 1.4%). El patrn de la mortalidad de las plntulas en relacin con la temperatura y la lluvia sugiere que la sequa y el calor matan ms plntulas de Carnegiea que las de Ferocactus despus del primer episodo de predacin de las semillas y de las plntulas. La explicacin ms probable es que los volumenes ms grandes de las semillas de Ferocactus confirieron ms tolerencia a la sequa. Plantas de F. wislizeni tambin podran ser establecidas sin el provecho de plantas protectoras mientras que C. gigantea no podra. Esto puede reflejar una tolerencia diferente a altas temperaturas del suelo.
10.2307/3672424|Phytolith analysis could play an important role in understanding vegetation dynamics in southwestern ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests, which have been dramatically altered by fire suppression and other factors. My objectives were to develop a phytolith reference collection and classification system for a ponderosa pine-bunchgrass community found near Flagstaff, Arizona. I examined 27 species of grasses found in and around the study area and ponderosa pine for diagnostic phytoliths. Twenty other species common to the area were examined for redundant phytolith forms. Eight phytolith forms were identified, including a diagnostic phytolith for ponderosa pine, the spiny body. The general Poaceae subfamily system validated by numerous researchers is applicable to this community. Examination of phytolith shape frequencies show that for 7 species in the subfamily Pooideae, and 1 species in the Panicoideae, very few (0 to 5%) nondiagnostic phytolith forms were present. Nondiagnostic phytoliths, particularly rondels, were more common (7 to 22%) for the 3 species from the Chloridoideae subfamily. This result is consistent with the observation by other authors that all grasses produce rondel forms and indicates that rondels will be over-represented in phytolith assemblages in comparison to actual vegetation. The ponderosa pine spiny body appears to be a useful diagnostic for this area and vegetation reconstructions using soil phytolith assemblages based on the system developed in this study could be used to understand grass-tree and grass vegetation dynamics. /// Los estudios de fitolitos pueden jugar un papel importante en la comprensin de la dinmica de la vegetacin en los bosques de pino ponderosa (Pinus ponderosa) del sudoeste de los Estados Unidos, los que han sufrido modificaciones drsticas debido a la eliminacin de incendios y a otros factores. Mis objetivos fueron desarrollar una coleccin de referencia fitolita y un sistema de clasificacin para una comunidad de pino ponderosa y zacate cercana a Flagstaff, Arizona. Examin 27 especies de pastos encontradas en y alrededor del sitio de estudio y en pino ponderosa para fitolitos diagnsticos. Se estudiaron otras 20 especies comunes en el rea para ver si presentaban formas de fitolitos redundantes. Se identificaron 8 formas de fitolitos, incluyendo un fitolito diagnstico de pino ponderosa: el cuerpo espinoso. El sistema general de subfamilias de Poceas anteriormente presentado por otros investigadores es vlido para esta comunidad. Examinacin de la frecuencia de formas de fitolitos indic que para 7 especies de la subfamilia Pooideae y una especie en la subfamilia Panicoideae presentaron muy pocos fitolitos no diagnsticos (0 a 5%). Estos mismos fitolitos, especialmente los circulares (rondels), fueron ms comunes (7 a 22%) en las tres especies de la subfamilia Chloridoideae. Este resultado coincide con la observacin de otros autores de que todos los pastos producen rondels, e indica que es esperable que las formas circulares estn sobre-representadas en el banco de fitolitos en comparacin con la abundancia de los pastos en la comunidad vegetal. El cuerpo espinoso del pino ponderosa parece ser una forma diagnstica til para esta zona. El sistema presentado en este trabajo puede usarse para reconstruir la vegetacin, y as entender mejor la dinmica vegetal de pasto-arbol y pasto.
10.2307/3672425|Catkins and buds of shinnery oak (Quercus havardii) are a food source for the lesser prairie chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) and perhaps other wildlife species. It is therefore important for managers to understand how different vegetation treatments may affect nutritional quality of shinnery oak catkins and buds. Objectives of our study were to determine nutritional quality of shinnery oak catkins and buds, evaluate the effect of grazing on bud nutritional quality, and determine the influence of burning and season of burn on nutritional quality of catkins and buds. The study consisted of 2 grazing treatments and 4 burning treatments. Total phenolics were higher in grazed plots compared to ungrazed plots, but crude protein did not differ by grazing treatment. Fiber content was lower in catkins than grazed or ungrazed buds. Prescribed burning decreased ash content of buds, but no other measure of nutritional quality was affected for either buds or catkins. The nutritional quality of shinnery oak buds and catkins is high, but phenolic levels ranging from 15.0 to 20.4% reduce its forage value for some species. /// Amentos y brotes del encino (Quercus havardii) son una fuente de alimento para el pollo menor de la pradera (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) y quizs para otras especies silvestres. Por esa razn es importante que los administradores entiendan cmo los diferentes tratamientos de la vegetacin pueden afectar la calidad nutricional de los amentos y de los brotes del encino. Los objectivos de nuestro estudio fueron determinar la calidad nutricional de los amentos y brotes de Q. havardii, evaluar el efecto del pasteo en la calidad nutricional de los brotes, y determinar la influencia de los incendios y cuando occuren en la calidad nutricional de los amentos y los brotes. El estudio consisti de 2 tratamientos de pasteo y 4 tratamientos de quema. Los fenoles totales fueron ms altos en los sitios con pasteo comparados con los sitios sin pastar, pero la protena cruda no difiri por tratamiento de pasteo. El contenido de fibra fue ms bajo en amentos que en brotes pastados o brotes sin pastar. Quemas prescritas disminuyeron el contenido de ceniza de los brotes, pero no afectaron ninguna otra calidad nutricional ni de los amentos ni de los brotes. La calidad nutricional de los amentos y brotes del encino es alta, pero los niveles fenlicos variando entre 15.0 a 20.4% reducen su valor de forraje para algunas especies.
10.2307/3672426|Floods are an important abiotic factor regulating stream fish assemblages. Alterations to the natural hydrograph (e.g., water storage and diversion dams) which have reduced or eliminated flooding have been blamed, in part, for the decline of many native fishes in the desert Southwest. Proposals to divert water from the upper 72 km of the Verde River of Arizona have raised concerns about the sustainability of native fish populations. I examined the relationship between late winter/early spring flooding and recruitment of roundtail chub, Gila robusta, to age 1 in an unregulated section of the upper Verde River, Arizona, and determined if significant differences in mean catch per unit effort (CPUE) of age 1 roundtail chub existed over an 11-year period. A strong positive relationship between maximum mean daily discharge in <tex-math>$\text{year}_{x}$</tex-math> and mean CPUE of age 1 roundtail chub in <tex-math>$\text{year}_{x+1}$</tex-math> was apparent. Mean CPUE of age 1 roundtail chub significantly increased or remained high in years following a flood in late winter/early spring of the previous year, and significantly decreased or remained low in years without flooding. Conversely, mean CPUE of subadult/adult roundtail chub did not significantly differ among years; thus, whether or not periodic strong year-classes are needed to maintain adult populations is uncertain. Nonetheless, recruitment of roundtail chub, and possibly other native fishes, to age 1 appears to be dependent on late winter/early spring floods, and a reduction in flood frequency likely would be detrimental to native fishes. /// Las inundaciones son un importante factor abitico regulador de las comunidades de peces en los ros. Las alteraciones a la hidrografa natural (por ejemplo almacenamiento de agua y presas), las cuales han reducido o eliminado las inundaciones, son en parte la razn por la cual las poblaciones de peces nativos estn disminuyendo en la zona del desierto del suroeste de los Estados Unidos. Los planes para desviar agua de los primeros 72 km en la parte alta del Ro Verde en Arizona, han provocado preocupaciones sobre la sustentabilidad de las poblaciones de peces nativos. En este trabajo, examin la relacin entre las inundaciones que ocurren al final del invierno/principios de la primavera y el reclutamiento del charal de aleta redonda, Gila robusta, hasta la edad 1 en una seccin del alto Ro Verde que no est controlada y determin si existian diferencias significativas en la media de la captura por unidad de esfuerzo (CPUE) de edad 1 de este charal, a lo largo de 11 aos. Existe una fuerte relacin positiva entre la media mxima diaria de descarga en el a<tex-math>$\text{o}_{x}$</tex-math> y la media CPUE de edad 1 del charal en el a<tex-math>$\text{o}_{x+1}$</tex-math>. Tambin, la media CPUE de edad 1 del charal se increment significativamente o permaneci alta en los aos que siguieron a una inundacin al final del invierno/principios de la primavera del ao anterior, y tambin disminuy significativamente o permaneci baja en aos sin inundaciones. Contrariamente, la media CPUE de charales subadultos/adultos no fue significativamente diferente entre los aos. De esta manera, es incierto si se requieren o no clases de edad peridicamente fuertes para mantener las poblaciones de adultos. Sin embargo, el reclutamiento de charales de aleta redonda, y posiblemente de otros peces nativos, hasta la edad 1 parece ser dependiente de las inundaciones al final del invierno/principios de la primavera y una reduccin en la frecuencia de las inundaciones probablemente sera negativa para los peces nativos.
10.2307/3672427|Naturally-occurring stable isotopes of carbon (<sup>13</sup>C) and nitrogen (<sup>15</sup>N) were analyzed to address questions about trophic interactions among native and nonnative fishes in the upper Colorado River basin, and to begin to evaluate the discreteness of floodplain pond fish assemblages. Specifically, 2 hypotheses were evaluated: 1) can stable isotope analysis be used to establish trophic relationships among native and nonnative fishes, and 2) can stable isotope signatures be used as a naturally-occurring marker to identify river fishes that have migrated from floodplain ponds? Nitrogen isotope ratios showed that at a particular location, either in ponds or backwaters, centrarchids were usually the top predators in each system. In one backwater,  <sup>15</sup>N and  <sup>13</sup>C signatures of the fish assemblage ranged about 4. The number of trophic levels represented was limited to about 2, and variation in carbon sources appeared to be great. The native flannel-mouth sucker, Catostomus latipinnis, was most distinct with a relatively low  <sup>15</sup>N and high  <sup>13</sup>C signature. Stable isotope signatures appeared to have utility as a naturally occurring marker for tracking influx of nonnative fishes to the Colorado River from ponds. Whereas pond signatures were not consistently depleted or enriched relative to those from backwaters, mean stable isotope signatures were more different among ponds than among backwater sites. Further, within particular species, some ponds had carbon or nitrogen signatures that were quite different from those at backwater sites. Stable isotope analysis appears to have promise for studying trophic relationships and movement patterns of native and nonnative fishes in the upper Colorado River basin. /// Istopos estables de carbn (<sup>13</sup>C) y nitrgeno (<sup>15</sup>N) que ocurren naturalmente fueron analizados para responder a preguntas acerca de interacciones trficas entre pescados nativos y no-nativos en la parte alta de la cuenca del Colorado River, y para empezar a evaluar la autonoma de los grupos de peces de estanques en los planos de inundacin. Dos hiptesis fueron evaluadas: 1) puede usarse el anlisis de istopos estables para establecer relaciones trficas entre peces nativos y no-nativos, y 2) pueden usarse la firmas de los istopos estables como un marcador que ocurre naturalmente para identificar peces de ro que han emigrado de los estanques de los planos de inundacin? Las proporciones del istopo de nitrgeno mostraron que, en un lugar en particular, tanto los estanques como en los remansos de ro, centrrquidos fueron usualmente los depredadores superiores en cada sistema. En un remanso de ro, firmas de  <sup>15</sup>N y  <sup>13</sup>C del grupo de peces vara cerca de 4. El nmero de niveles trficos representado se limit a cerca de 2, y la variacin en las fuentes de carbn pareci ser grande. El matalote nativo, Catostomus latipinnis, fue ms distinto con una firma de  <sup>15</sup>N relativamente baja y  <sup>13</sup>C alta. Firmas de istopos estables parecieron tener una utilidad como un marcador natural para rastrear el influjo de peces no-nativos al Colorado River desde estanques. Mientras que las firmas de los estanques no fueron consistentemente mermadas o enriquecidas en relacin a las de remansos, promedios de firmas de istopos estables fueron ms diferentes entre estanques que entre remansos. Ms an, entre especies particulares, algunos estanques tuvieron firmas de carbn o nitrgeno que fueron muy diferentes de las de los remansos. El anlisis de istopos estables parece ser bueno para el estudio de relaciones trficas y patrones de desplazamiento de peces nativos y no-nativos en la parte alta de la cuenca del Colorado River.
10.2307/3672428|The decline in abundance of the newly recognized Gunnison sage grouse (Centrocercus minimus) in southwestern Colorado is thought to be linked to loss and fragmentation of its habitat, sagebrush (Artemisia) vegetation. We documented changes in sagebrush-dominated areas between the 1950s and 1990s by comparing low level aerial photographs taken in these time periods. We documented a loss of 20% or 155,673 ha of sagebrush-dominated areas in southwestern Colorado between 1958 and 1993. The amount of sagebrush-dominated area was much higher and loss rates were much lower in the Gunnison Basin. We also found that 37% of plots sampled underwent substantial fragmentation of sagebrush vegetation. If current trends of habitat loss and fragmentation continue, Gunnison sage grouse (and perhaps other sagebrush-steppe obligates) may become extinct. Protecting the remaining habitat from further loss and fragmentation is paramount to the survival of this species. /// La declinacin en la abundancia del recientemente reconocido gallo Centrocercus minimus en el suroeste de Colorado (USA) se considera estar conectada a la prdida y fragmentacin del hbitat de la vegetacin artemisa (Artemisia). Documentamos los cambios en reas dominadas por artemisa entre 1950s y 1990s comparando fotografas areas a baja altura durante estos perodos. Documentamos la prdida de 20% o 155,673 ha de reas dominadas por artemisa en el suroeste de Colorado entre 1958 y 1993. La cantidad del rea dominada por artemisa fue ms alta y la taza de prdida fue mucho menor en Gunnison Basin. Tambin encontramos que 37% de los sitios muestreados sufrieron una fragmentacin sustancial de vegetacin artemisa. Si las tendencias actuales de prdida de hbitat y fragmentacin continan, el gallo Centrocercus minimus (y quizs otros que viven solamente en estepa-artemisa) podran desaparecer. Proteger el hbitat restante de ms prdida y fragmentacin es primordial para la sobrevivencia de esta especie.
10.2307/3672429|We compared vegetation features and rodent communities between a recently burned area and a nearby control area, and also these same areas 1 year prior to the fire treatment. Bare ground increased and grass and litter decreased following the burn. We did not detect differences in cover of trees and shrubs. Rodent communities did not differ in size or species richness between burned and unburned grids. Total number of rodents on both grids increased in the year of the burn, with the unburned grid showing the greater increase. These increases seem unrelated to the burn treatment. There appeared to be a relative change in proportions of bipedal and quadrupedal heteromyids on burned and control grids. /// Comparamos caractersticas de la vegetacin y de las comunidades de roedores entre un rea recientemente quemada y una cercana como control, y tambin las mismas reas l ao antes del tratamiento de fuego. La cantidad de suelo desnudo aument mientras que los pastos y hojarasca decrecieron despus de la quema. No detectamos diferencias en cobertura de rboles y arbustos. Las comunidades de roedores no difirieron en tamao ni en riqueza entre reas tratadas y no tratadas. El nmero total de roedores en ambas reas aument en el ao de la quema, con el rea no quemada demostrando un aumento superior. Estos aumentos parecen no relacionados al tratamiento de fuego. Un cambio relativo en las proporciones de hetermidos bpedos y quadrpedos entre el rea quemada y no quemada pareci haber ocurrido.
10.2307/3672430|The landscape of the world is becoming more dissected by roads each year due to the growing human population. Numerous studies have documented the direct impact of roads on wildlife by examining mortality caused by vehicles but few have investigated indirect effects of roads on animals. We used capture-mark-recapture (CMR), fluorescent pigments, and radiotelemetry techniques to assess the influence of roads on movements of rodents. During CMR, only 5 of 53 (9.4%) individuals captured more than once spontaneously crossed roads, whereas 21 of 51 (41.2%) rodents that were displaced across roads when released returned to the side of their original capture. Only 1 of 54 (1.9%) rodents powdered with fluorescent pigment moved across the road when released at their capture site. In contrast, 7 of 53 (13.2%) displaced and powdered animals crossed the road. Six of 12 (50%) radiotagged animals were located on both sides of the road on at least 1 occasion; however, >90% of all locations were on the same side as the original capture for all individuals. Roads were partial barriers to movements of rodents; however, when displaced, animals exhibited a greater likelihood of crossing a road. Although proportion of rodents crossing roads varied among the 3 studies, all techniques yielded consistent results. /// El paisaje del mundo se est fragmentado ms cada ao por caminos debido al crecimiento de la poblacin humana. Numerosos estudios han documentado el impacto directo de las carreteras en la vida silvestre examinando la mortalidad causada por los vehculos, pero pocos han investigado el efecto indirecto de los caminos en los animales. Usamos captura-marca-recaptura (CMR), pigmentos fluorescentes, y tcnicas de radiotelemetra para valorar la influencia de los caminos en los desplazamientos de los roedores. Durante CMR, slo 5 de 53 (9.4%) individuos capturados ms de una vez cruzaron los caminos espontneamente, mientras que 21 de 51 (41.2%) de roedores que fueron llevados al otro lado de los caminos regresaron al lugar original de su captura. Slo 1 de 54 (1.9%) de los roedores espolvoreados con pigmento fluorescente cruz el camino cuando se les liber en su lugar de captura. En contraste, 7 de 53 (13.2%) animales desplazados y espolvoreados cruzaron la carretera. Seis de 12 (50%) animales con radiotransmisores fueron localizados en ambos lados del camino al menos en 1 ocasin; sin embargo, >90% de todas las localizaciones fueron en el mismo lado de la captura original para todos los individuos. Los caminos fueron barreras parciales para los movimientos de los roedores; sin embargo, cuando fueron desplazados, los animales exhibieron una posibilidad mayor de cruzar el camino. A pesar de que la proporcin de roedores que cruza los caminos vari en los 3 estudios, todas las tcnicas produjeron resultados consistentes.
10.2307/3672431|We examined demography of a population of desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) in the Mazatzal Mountains, Arizona, in association with annual and seasonal rainfall and relative herd density over an 11-year period that encompassed increasing, but normal median, annual precipitation (1989-1993) and drought conditions (post-1993). During wet years of 1989-1993 and through 1994, the population was stable or increasing slightly, and desert bighorn were distributed throughout the study area. Relative abundance of yearlings was positively correlated during wet years with total annual rainfall from the same year, and winter rainfall was positively correlated with number of groups observed 1.5 years later. In contrast, total males, Class I and II males, lambs observed per hour of survey time, and lambs:100 females declined during the post-1993 drought. Declining winter rainfall during drought was correlated with total desert bighorn, female and yearling observations per hour, and with yearling recruitment 1.5 years later. We found no clear evidence suggesting density dependent effects on recruitment during wet or drought years. However, lower population densities during drought corresponded with a contraction of bighorn distribution. The proportion of Class IV males in the total population of males was lower than expected throughout the study and was independent of rainfall. Our results indicate that annual and seasonal rainfalls are important variables driving the dynamics of bighorn sheep populations in desert environments. /// Examinamos aspectos demogrficos de una poblacin de borrego cimarrn (Ovis canadensis) en las Montaas Mazatzal en Arizona, en asociacin con las lluvias anuales y temporales y la densidad relativa de la manada por un perodo de 11 aos que incluy precipitacin anual aumentando, pero con media normal (de 1989 a 1993), y condiciones de sequa (post-1993). Durante los aos ms hmedos de 1989 a 1993 y hasta 1994, la poblacin de borrego cimarrn estuvo estable o incrementando ligeramente y con una distribucin por toda el rea de estudio. La abundancia relativa de los individuos de un ao de edad estuvo correlacionada positivamente durante los aos hmedos con la lluvia total anual para el mismo ao, y la lluvia de invierno estuvo correlacionada positivamente con el nmero de grupos observados 1.5 aos despus. En contraste, el total de machos, las Clases I y II de machos y los corderos observados por hora de muestreo, as como la proporcin de corderos/100 hembras, declinaron durante la sequa despus de 1993. La disminucin de la lluvia de invierno durante el perodo de sequa se correlacion con las observaciones por hora del total de cimarrones, hembras, y los de un ao, y con el reclutamiento de los de un ao, un ao y medio despus. No encontramos una evidencia clara de que el reclutamiento sea dependiente de la densidad de borregos para los aos hmedos o de sequas. Sin embargo, las densidades poblacionales ms bajas durante las sequas correspondieron con la contraccin del rea de distribucin. La proporcin de machos de Clase IV en la poblacin total de machos fue ms baja de lo que se esperaba durante todo el estudio y fue independiente de la precipitacin. Nuestros resultados sugieren que las lluvias anuales y temporales son variables que potencialmente impactan la dinmica de las poblaciones de borrego cimarrn en ambientes desrticos.
10.2307/3672432|We compared bed sites selected by desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) to nearby random sites to assess bed site features. Thermal cover of bed sites (i.e., vegetation 75 cm high that provided shade for a deer) was highest in summer (X = 43.7%  4.1 SE) compared to spring (29.7%  4.4), winter (33.5%  3.1), and autumn (39.8%  4.0); however, selection for bed sites with thermal cover that differed most from that available randomly was highest in spring (X difference between bed and random sites = 14.8%  5.2) compared to summer (8.3%  4.1), winter (6.6%  3.5), and autumn (8.6%  3.5). Thermal cover is likely important as a contribution to thermoregulation, escape cover, protection of fawns, and fawn survival. /// Comparamos los echaderos seleccionados por el venado bura (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) a sitios cercanos al azar para determinar las caractersticas de los echaderos. La cubierta termal de los echaderos (o sea, vegetacin 75 cm de altura que provey sombra para el venado) fue ms alta en el verano (X = 43.7%  4.1 SE), comparado con la primavera (27.9%  4.4), invierno (33.5%  3.1), y otoo (39.8%  4.0). Sin embargo, la seleccin de echaderos con cubierta termal que difiri ms que lo disponible al azar fue ms alta en la primavera (X diferencia entre echaderos y sitios al azar = 14.8%  5.2) comparada con el verano (8.3%  4.1), invierno (6.6%  3.5), y otoo (8.6%  3.5). La cubierta termal es quizs importante como una contribucin a la termorregulacin, cubierta de escape, proteccin de ciervos, y supervivencia de ciervos.
10.2307/3672796|Nicotiana attenuata, an herbaceous annual plant of disturbed sites in cold deserts of western North America, has traits that suggest adaptation for hawkmoth (Sphingidae, e.g., Hyles lineata or Manduca spp.) pollination. The tubular flowers are white and open fully at night and twilight, often closing by midday. Nectar is produced between dusk and dawn, and if not harvested is resorbed between dawn and midday. At our study site in northern Arizona, hawkmoths were absent or scarce during September and early October 1994, but migrating female and juvenile Selasphorus hummingbirds (rufous and broad-tailed hummingbirds) visited flowers regularly during morning or evening and briefly defended territories centered on plants. Most of these hummingbirds disappeared from the patch at midday. We found only weak evidence that hummingbirds have acted as agents of selection on floral traits of N. attenuata. Nectar production was low (ca. 1.15 l/flower/night, containing 0.43 mg sugar) relative to most hummingbird flowers of the western United States, and although hummingbirds obtained a short-term profit from N. attenuata in the morning and early evening when nectar standing crop was high, most birds could not meet their daily energy requirements by foraging exclusively on its flowers. Hummingbird pollination had no impact on female fitness of N. attenuata, because seed production was not affected by provision of self or outcross pollen. Hummingbirds may have affected plant fitness through pollen export. Our results demonstrate the opportunism of migrant hummingbirds and suggest the potential for evolution of floral traits to proceed from such an opportunistic use of a plant in the absence of its syndrome pollinator. /// Nicotiana attenuata es una planta herbcea anual que crece en sitios perturbados de los fros desiertos del oeste de Amrica del Norte. Esta planta posee caractersticas florales que sugieren una adaptacin para polinizacon por esfngidos. Las flores tubulares son blancas, se abren completamente durante la noche y el crepsculo y se cierran generalmente al medioda. El nctar es producido entre el anochecer y el amanacer y si no es cosechado, es reabsorbido entre el amanecer y el medioda. En nuestro sito de estudio en el norte de Arizona, se encontraron muy pocos o ningn esfngido durante los meses de septiembre y comienzos de octubre de 1994. Sin embargo, las flores fueron regularmente visitadas durante la maana o la tarde por hembras y jvenes aves migratorias de colibres Selasphorus (colibr bermejo y con cola amplia) quienes defendieron por cortos perodos de tiempos los territorios circundantes a estas plantas. La mayora de colibres desaparecieron del lugar al medioda. Encontramos slo una dbil evidencia en favor de que los colibres actuan como agentes de seleccin en las caractersticas florales de N. attenuata. La produccin de nctar fue baja (cerca de 1.15 l/flor/noche, conteniendo 0.43 mg de azcar) comparada con la mayora de otras flores visitadas por colibres en el oeste de los Estados Unidos. Aunque los colibres se beneficiaron de esta planta por cortos perodos de tiempo cuando haba mucho nctar, es decir en la maana y al atardecer, la mayora de las aves no pudieron satisfacer sus diarios requerimientos energticos solamente utilizando estas flores. La polinizacin por los colibres no tuvo impacto en la adecuacin de hembras de N. attenuata, porque la produccin de semillas no fue afectada por la provisin de polen de la misma planta o de otras. Los colibres podran haber afectado la adecuacin de la planta a travs de la exportacin de polen. Nuestros resultados muestran el oportunismo de los colibres migratorios y sugieren el potencial para la evolucin de las caractersticas florales a partir de este tipo de uso oportunista de una planta en ausencia de su sndrome polinizador.
10.2307/3672797|The Rio Grande leopard frog (Rana berlandieri), previously documented as an introduced species along the lower Gila and Colorado river valleys in southwestern Arizona and southeastern California, has continued to expand its range into the Imperial Valley of southeastern California, is now well-established west of Phoenix, Arizona, and occurs on the Ro Colorado, Baja California Norte. We found R. berlandieri at 53 new localities in Arizona, California, and Baja California Norte, representing continued invasion of riverine and agricultural habitats, including range extensions of 65 km northeast and 44 km southeast of the eastern-most previously reported locality in Arizona, and 42 km north of the nearest previously reported locality in California. We report the species for the first time in Baja California Norte, 46 km southwest of the next nearest previously reported locality. The species apparently disperses to new areas via agricultural ditches and canals, rivers, and by human introduction. We explore the potential for continued invasion of suitable habitats in California, Arizona, Baja California Norte, and Sonora and discuss implications for regional conservation and management of native ranid frogs. /// La rana leopardo del Ro Bravo (Rana berlandieri), anteriormente documentada como una especie introducida a lo largo de las cuencas bajas de los ros Gila y Colorado en el suroeste de Arizona y el sureste de California, sigue ampliando su distribucin en el Valle Imperial del sureste de California, ya est bien establecida al oeste de Phoenix, Arizona, y ocurre en el Ro Colorado, Baja California Norte. Encontramos R. berlandieri en 53 nuevas localidades en Arizona, California, y Baja California Norte, lo que representa invasiones continuas de los hbitats ribereos y agrcolas, incluyendo extensiones de su distribucin de 65 km al noreste y 44 km al suroeste de la localidad anteriormente registrada en el este de Arizona, y a 42 km al norte de la localidad ms cerca anteriormente registrada en California. Registramos la especie en Baja California Norte por primera vez, a 46 km del suroeste de la localidad ms cerca anteriormente registrada. La especie aparentemente se dispersa a reas nuevas va canales y acequias agrcolas, ros, y por introducciones humanas. Exploramos el potencial para ms invasiones de hbitats adecuados en California, Arizona, Baja California Norte, y Sonora, y discutimos tambin las implicaciones para la conservacin regional y el manejo de ranas acuticas nativas.
10.2307/3672798|The Cnemidophorus laredoensis complex consists of 2 all-female, diploid, parthenogenetic species designated LAR-A and LAR-B. Field observations suggest LAR-B is behaviorally dominant to LAR-A and that both species defend their burrows from intruders. These hypotheses were tested by analyzing lizard behaviors with a series of laboratory trials. Prior to a trial, an LAR-A and an LAR-B were isolated on opposite sides of a large terrarium for 48 h by a partition; this allowed both lizards to establish burrows on their home side. A trial consisted of removing the partition and analyzing lizard behaviors for the next 60 min. Based on the criterion of winning over 50% of encounters, the LAR-B won 11 of the 13 trials in which there was a clear winner, suggesting that LAR-B is dominant to LAR-A; however, individuals of neither species exhibited burrow defense. LAR-A and LAR-B rarely shared burrows and both appeared reluctant to enter an occupied burrow although when one lizard did so, the burrow occupant generally left the burrow. Both LAR-A and LAR-B rested in their opponent's burrow more than in their own burrow during trials, and both showed a statistically significant preference to use their opponent's burrow as their overnight retreat after the conclusion of the trial, suggesting a lack of burrow site fidelity in these species. /// El complejo Cnemidophorus laredoensis consiste de 2 especies todas-hembras, diploides, partenogenticas designadas LAR-A y LAR-B. Las observaciones de campo sugieren que LAR-B es conductualmente dominante sobre LAR-A y que ambas especies defienden sus madrigueras de intrusos. Estas hiptesis fueron probadas analizando el comportamiento de las lagartijas con una serie de pruebas de laboratorio. Antes de cada prueba, una LAR-A y una LAR-B fueron aisladas en lados opuestos de un terrario grande durante 48 h por una particin; esto permiti a ambas lagartijas establecer madrigueras en su propio lado. Un prueba consisti en remover la particin y analizar el comportamiento de las lagartijas durante 60 min. Basados en el criterio de ganar ms de 50% de los encuentros, LAR-B gan 11 de 13 pruebas en las que fue claramante ganadora, sugiriendo que LAR-B es dominante sobre LAR-A. Sin embargo, ningn individuo de ambas especies exhibi defensa de su madriguera. LAR-A y LAR-B raramente compartieron madrigueras y ambas parecieron reluctantes a entrar a una madriguera ocupada aunque cuando una lagartija lo hizo, el ocupante de la madriguera generalmente sali. Tanto LAR-A como LAR-B descansaron en la madriguera de su oponente ms que en su propria madriguera durante las pruebas, y ambas mostraron una preferencia estadsticamente significativa para usar la madriguera de su oponente para pasar la noche despus de la conclusin de la prueba, sugiriendo la falta de fidelidad a su madriguera en estas especies.
10.2307/3672799|We studied movement behavior, activity range size, habitat use, and diet of the Grand Canyon rattlesnake (Crotalus viridis abyssus) in the Little Colorado River Canyon (Arizona) by capturing 13 rattlesnakes and equipping 9 with radio-transmitters. On average, snakes moved 45 m per movement and 26 m per day; males moved longer distances than females, but movement frequency was not significantly different between sexes. Unlike some other populations of C. viridis, Grand Canyon rattlesnakes exhibited low directionality of movements. Activity range size ranged from <4 to >30 ha among individuals, and the corridor-like nature of the canyon bottom resulted in elongate activity ranges. Prey species of rodents were common in each of 4 subhabitats on the study site, and snakes appeared to be dietary opportunists, eating a variety of rodent and lizard prey. Snakes preferentially used riparian areas and avoided floodplains. Talus and upland mesquite habitats were used in rough proportion to their availability. Differential use of subhabitat may result from thermoregulatory constraints and from variation in predictability of rodent prey. /// Estudiamos el comportamiento de desplazamiento tamao del rango de actividad, uso del hbitat, y dieta del cascabel del Gran Can (Crotalus viridis abyssus) en el can de Little Colorado River (Arizona) a travs de la captura de 13 serpientes, equipando 9 con radio-transmisores. En promedio, las serpientes se desplazaron 45 m/desplazamiento y 26 m/da; los machos atravesaron ms largas distancias que las hembras, pero la frecuencia de desplazamientos fue igual para ambos sexos. Las serpientes exhibieron poca direccionalidad de movimiento, contrario a otras poblaciones de C. viridis. El tamao del rango de actividad vari de <4 a >30 ha entre individuos, y la forma de los rangos de actividad fue alargada debido a la forma como corredor del fondo del can. Especies de roedoras de presa se encontraron comnmente en cada uno de los 4 sub-hbitats en el rea del estudio, y las serpientes aparentaron ser oportunistas alimenticias, comiendo una variedad de roedores y lagartijas. Las serpientes solan usar las riberas y evitaron la tierra baja sujeta a inundacin. Zonas rocallosas y hbitats de mesquite de tierras altas se usaron en proporcin aproximada a lo disponible. El uso diferencial del sub-hbitat puede ser el resultado de restricciones termorreguladoras y la variacin en la previsibilidad de los roedores de presa.
10.2307/3672800|Lizard distribution is described for the Vizcano Biosphere Reserve in the northern extreme of Baja California Sur, in central Baja California. The 20 species found include 74% of all the Baja California Sur lizards, excluding insular endemics. Five species are widely distributed throughout the Reserve. Four species are restricted to sandy soils (coarse and dunes) and open spaces. Seven species are restricted to rocky areas in the Sierras. Two species are included in the CITES list and 11 in the Official Mexican Norm (NOM 059-94) in some conservation category. This Reserve contains livestock (cows and goats), whose increasing numbers and grazing areas are often unrestricted. This disturbance is a potential threat for some species, especially those with restricted distributions in the eastern sierras where there are large numbers of goats. /// Se describe la distribucin de las especies de lagartijas en la Reserva de la Bisfera El Vizcano, en el extremo norte de Baja California Sur, en la parte central de la pennsula. En la Reserva existen 20 especies de lagartijas que representan el 74% de las especies de lagartijas distribuidas en el estado, sin incluir las especies isleas endmicas. Cinco especies tienen una amplia distribucin en la reserva. Cuatro estn restringidas a suelos arenosos (arena gruesa y dunas) y lugares abiertos. Siete estn restringidas a zonas de suelos rocosos en las sierras. Dos especies estn incluidas en el listado del CITES y once en la Norma Oficial Mexicana (NOM 059-94) dentro de alguna categora de conservacin. La Reserva de la Bisfera El Vizcano es un rea con actividad ganadera (vacas y cabras) sin control del nmero de animales y reas de pastoro, lo cual puede representar una amenaza para algunas especies, particularmente aquellas con una distribucin restringida en las sierras del este, donde hay una gran cantidad de cabras.
10.2307/3672801|Most species of land mammals in Texas have relatively small geographical ranges, as is also the case for North America. As geographical range size increases, the number of habitat types embraced by a range also increases. This relationship is nonlinear and is modeled by power law equations. The first derivative of these equations decreases with range size in Texas. This indicates that, in Texas, new habitat is embraced most rapidly by species with small ranges and, monotonically, less rapidly as range size increases. A power law also models qualitatively similar data for North America. In this case the first derivative increases with range size. On a continental scale new habitat is embraced least rapidly by species with small ranges and most rapidly by those with large ranges. State and continental patterns may differ from each other as a consequence of the spatial orientation and proportional size, relative to the study area, of geographical ranges and habitat. /// La mayora de las especies de mamferos terrestres del estado de Texas, Estados Unidos, tienen rangos geogrficos de distribucin que son relativamente pequeos. Este mismo patrn se encuentra a nivel del continente Norteamericano. A medida que el tamao de los rangos geogrficos aumenta, el nmero de las diferentes clases de hbitat que los rangos abarcan, aumenta. Esta relacin no es lineal y se modela con ecuaciones matemticas de potencia. En Texas, la primera derivada de estas ecuaciones disminuye con el tamao de los rangos geogrficos. Esto indica que en Texas, el hbitat nuevo es abarcado ms rpidamente para las especies con rangos pequeos y, como funcin montona, menos rpidamente a medida que el tamao de los rangos aumenta. Datos cualitativamente similares para Norteamrica son tambin modelados por ecuaciones de potencia, pero en este caso la primera derivada aumenta con el tamao de los rangos. A escala continental, el hbitat nuevo es abarcado menos rpidamente, para las especies con rangos pequeos, y ms rpidamente para las especies con rangos grandes. Posiblemente los patrones entre el estado y el continente difieren como consecuencia de la orientacin espacial y tamao proporcional, en relacin al rea del estudio, de los rangos geogrficos y del hbitat.
10.2307/3672802|Five species of shrews (Insectivora: Soricidae), Sorex cf. S. cinereus, Sorex cf. S. preblei, S. nanus, S. monticolus, and S. palustris are reported from Cement Creek and Haystack caves, Gunnison Co., Colorado. Deposits in Cement Creek Cave date from 43,330 B.P., prior to the peak Wisconsin glaciation (20,000 to 18,000 B.P.), to the late Holocene. This cave contains a higher diversity of shrews with all 5 species represented, especially S. monticolus which is most abundant. Haystack Cave has deposits that date primarily from 19,990 to 12,910 B.P. Two taxa of shrews were recovered from this site, including 1 that might represent an undescribed extinct species of Sorex. All other species identified from these caves, except Sorex cf. S. preblei, currently occur in the Upper Gunnison Basin and indicate that primarily a mixed sagebrush steppe and subalpine forest environment existed near these caves during the late Pleistocene. /// Se registran cinco especies de musgaos (Insectvora: Soricidae), Sorex cf. S. cinereus, Sorex cf. S. preblei, S. nanus, S. monticolus, y S. palustris en cuevas de Cement Creek y Haystack, condado de Gunnison, Colorado. Depsitos en la cueva de Cement Creek fechan desde 43,330 B. P., antes del pico de la glaciacin Wisconsin (20,000 a 18,000 B.P.), hasta el fin del Holoceno. Esta cueva contiene las 5 especies de musgaos, especialmente S. monticolus, que es ms abundante. La cueva de Haystack tiene depsitos que fechan principalmente desde 19,990 a 12,910 B.P. Se encontraron 2 taxa de musgaos en este sitio, incluso uno que quizs representa 1 especie extinta de Sorex no descrita. Todas las otras especies identificadas en estas cuevas, excepto Sorex cf. S. preblei, actualmente ocurren en la cuenca superior de Gunnison e indican que exista principalmente un ambiente de estepa artemisa mixta y bosque subalpino cerca de estas cuevas durante el Pleistoceno tardo.
10.2307/3672803|Southern plains woodrats (Neotoma micropus; n = 180) from 86 dens were trapped, tagged, and screened for Leishmania during 2,292 trap-nights conducted at the La Copita Research Area in southern Texas from May 1997 through December 1998. None tested positive for Leishmania. Data on longevity, natality, sex ratio, and density of woodrats at this locality are presented along with an analysis of the changing occupancies of individual dens and apparent movements between dens by individual woodrats. /// Ciento ochenta ejemplares de Neotoma micropus de 86 madrigueras fueron atrapados, marcados, y examinados por Leishmania, durante un total de 2,292 trampa-noches en el aea de Investigacin La Copita en el sur de Texas desde mayo de 1997 a diciembre de 1998. Ninguno sali positivo para Leishmania. Se presentan datos de longevidad, natalidad, proporcin sexual, y abundancia de N. micropus en esta localidad, y tambin un anlisis de los cambios habitacionales de las madrigueras y movimientos entre ellas.
10.2307/3672804|Aspects of the feeding ecology of Leptonycteris curasoae in Northern Venezuela were studied through analysis of pollen collected from fur and feces. Cactaceae and Bombacaceae (100%) were the most frequently found pollen in feces, followed by Caricaceae (66.7%) and Agavaceae (22.2%). No significant differences were found between the frequency of occurrence of pollen collected from fur and that present in feces. Pollen-diet composition showed highly significant differences among seasons but not between sexes. During the year no significant differences between sexes were found in the frequency of occurrence of seeds and pollen in the feces, but when analysis was restricted to April through July, the period of late pregnancy and lactation, there were significant differences between sexes and between females in different reproductive conditions. Breeding females, specially during lactation, apparently ingest more fruits to supply their particular nutritional and energetic requirements. Differences in pollen frequency observed in the diet during the year seem related to flowering pattern of the plant families present in the study area. /// A travs del anlisis de las heces y del polen adherido a la piel se estudiaron algunos aspectos de la ecologa nutricional de Leptonycteris curasoae, quirptero presente en la zona norte de Venezuela. El polen ms frecuentemente encontrado en las heces fue de Cactcea y Bombacceae (100%), seguido del de Caricceae (66.7%) y Agavceae (22.2%). No se encontraron diferencias significativas entre el porcentaje de frecuencia de aparicin del polen colectado en la piel con respecto al presente en las heces. La composicin del polen en la dieta present diferencias significativas entre los meses del ao, pero no entre los sexos. A lo largo del ao tampoco se encontraron diferencias significativas en la frecuencia de aparicin de semillas y polen en las heces entre los sexos, pero cuando este anlisis se limit al perodo abril-julio, lapso en el cual las hembras se encuentran finalizando el perodo de gestacin y se ocupan de la lactancia, se encontraron diferencias significativas entre los sexos y entre las diferentes condiciones reproductivas de las hembras. Las hembras en perodo reproductivo, especialmente durante la lactancia, aparentamente ingieren ms frutos para cumplir con sus requerimientos nutricionales y energticos. Las diferencias encontradas en la frecuencia del polen en la dieta a lo largo del ao parecen estar relacionadas con el patrn de floracin de las diferentes familias de plantas presentes en la zona de estudio.
10.2307/3672901|Juniperus ashei woodlands are found extensively throughout the Edwards Plateau of central Texas. Prior studies indicate that seed germination and seedling survival in J. ashei was greatest under the canopy whereas growth was greatest at the canopy edge. To investigate the cause of these spatial differences, measurements of percent soil moisture and plant predawn xylem water potential (<tex-math>$\Psi _{\text{p}}$</tex-math>) for J. ashei seedlings were made along transects from under a woodland canopy into an intercanopy patch. A soil moisture gradient was detected, with soil moisture highest under the woodland canopy and decreasing into the intercanopy patch. Soil moisture was lowest during the summer drought along this gradient. Mean soil moisture was highest at 68.4  7.0% (SE) under the Juniperus canopy in May 1997 and lowest at 12.5  1.9% in the intercanopy patch during July 1997. Seedling <tex-math>$\Psi _{\text{p}}$</tex-math> under the Juniperus canopy ranged from values of -0.51  0.02 MPa in May to -6.59  0.00 MPa in August. Plant <tex-math>$\Psi _{\text{p}}$</tex-math> at the canopy edge was -0.72  0.03 MPa in May and -6.50  0.00 MPa in August. No seedlings were found in the intercanopy patch. Spatial and temporal differences in seedling <tex-math>$\Psi _{\text{p}}$</tex-math> between the Juniperus woodland and canopy edge did exist, but differences were small (<0.20 MPa). Temporal decreases in soil moisture were followed by more negative seedling <tex-math>$\Psi _{\text{p}}$</tex-math> values. Differences in observed <tex-math>$\Psi _{\text{p}}$</tex-math> along this woodland to intercanopy patch gradient probably cause reductions in photosynthesis and growth rates in J. ashei, and are likely due to an interaction of several abiotic factors, including soil temperature, soil depth, soil moisture, surface light levels, and soil organic content. /// La arboledo de Juniperus ashei se encuentra extensivamente a travs de la meseta de Edwards en el centro de Texas. Estudios anteriores indican que la germinacin de las semillas de J. ashei y la supervivencia de las plntulas ocurri principalmente bajo el dosel mientras que el crecimiento fue ms grande al borde del dosel. Para investigar la causa de estas diferencias espaciales, las medidas de porcentaje de humedad en el suelo y el potencial del agua de xilema tomado antes del amanecer (<tex-math>$\Psi _{\text{p}}$</tex-math>) de las plntulas de J. ashei fueron hechos a lo largo de transectos desde un aea bajo el dosel hacia un claro. Se defect un gradiente de humedad del suelo, con la ms alta humedad del suelo observada bajo el dosel y la ms baja observada hacia el claro. La humedad del suelo fue ms baja durante la sequa del verano a lo largo de este gradiente. El promedio de humedad del suelo fue ms alto en 68.4  7.0% (SE) bajo el dosel de Juniperus en mayo de 1997 y ms bajo en 12.5  1.9% en el claro durante julio de 1997. El <tex-math>$\Psi _{\text{p}}$</tex-math> de las plntulas bajo el dosel de Juniperus oscil de -0.51  0.02 MPa en mayo a -6.59  0.00 MPa en agosto. El <tex-math>$\Psi _{\text{p}}$</tex-math> de las plantas en el borde del dosel fue -0.72  0.03 MPa en mayo y -6.50  0.00 MPa en agosto. No se encontr ninguna plntulas en el claro. Existieron diferencias espaciales y temporales en el <tex-math>$\Psi _{\text{p}}$</tex-math> de las plntulas entre la arboleda de Juniperus y el borde del dosel, pero las diferencias fueron pequeas (<0.20 MPa). Disminuciones temporales de la humedad del suelo fueron seguidas por valores ms negativos del <tex-math>$\Psi _{\text{p}}$</tex-math> de las plntulas. Las diferencias en el <tex-math>$\Psi _{\text{p}}$</tex-math> observadas a lo largo de este transecto de la arboleda hasta el claro probablemente causaron reducciones en la fotosntesis y tase de crecimiento de J. ashei, y probablemente estas diferencias son debidas a una interaccin de varios factores abiticos, incluyendo la temperatura del suelo, profundidad del suelo, humedad del suelo, niveles de luz en la superficie, y el contenido orgnico del suelo.
10.2307/3672902|We report the frequency of 3 globose cacti (Mammillaria carnea, M. haageana, and Coryphantha pallida) associated with nurse plants or bare areas and assess the size of plants in each site. We found 3 times more cacti established beneath nurse plants than in bare areas, and all cacti species were the same size when associated with shrub cover or bare areas. Under a plant canopy, the size structure was pyramidal, whereas in bare areas, individuals were found isolated with an even size structure, and few small plants were recorded. There was a positive relationship between the type of shrub cover and the associated globose cacti. We found more individuals of all 3 species of cacti associated with Prosopis laevigata than with Mimosa luisana, but size structure was similar between them. We discuss 2 possible scenarios that may result from the nurse-protg interaction. /// Registramos la frecuencia de establecimiento do tres cactceas globossas (Mammillaria carnea, M. haageana y Coryphantha pallida) asociadas con plantas nodriza y en reas rasas y evaluamos el tamao de las plantas en cada sitio. Encontramos 3 veces ms cactceas establecidas debajo de plantas nodriza que en reas rasas, y todas las especies de cactceas fueron del mismo tamao cuando se asociaron con reas cubiertas de arbustos o con reas rasas. Bajo la cubierta de las plantas, el tamao estructural fue piramidal, mientras que en reas rasas, se encontraron individuos aislados con un tamao estructural parejo y se registration pocas y pequeas plantas. Hobo una relacin positivia entre el tip de cubierta de arbusto y la cactcea globosa asociada. Encontramos ms individuos de las tres especies de cactaceas asociadas con Prosopis laevigata que con Mimosa luisana, pero el tamao estructural fue similar entre ellas. Discutimos 2 posibles escenarios que pueden resultar de la interaccin entre nodriza y protegido.
10.2307/3672903|The Coral Pink Sand Dunes tiger beetle (Cicindela limbata albissima) exists only within the Coral Pink Sand Dunes in southwestern Utah. It is currently a candidate for listing as an endangered species. Cicindela tranquebarica occurs throughout the southwestern United States, including the Coral Pink Sand Dunes. We examined microhabitat differences between C. l. albissima and C. tranquebarica. Results of June 1999 adult counts and measurements of percent soil moisture and salt content in 53 interdune swales indicated a significant negative correlation between soil moisture and an index of the relative number of adult C. l. albissima to C. tranquebarica, and a significant positive correlation between soil moisture and direct counts of adult C. tranquebarica. The index of relative number of adults of the 2 species was unrelated to salt content. The relative ratio of larvae of the 2 species in a given swale was significantly correlated to the relative ratio of adults of the 2 species. The cause of the observed microhabitat differences for relatively moist or dry soil could be due to a number of as yet unstudied factors including oviposition preference by the females and larval competition. /// El escarabajo Cicinindela limbata albissima se encuentra solamente en la regin de las dunas Coral Pink Sand Dunes en el suroeste de Utah en los Estados Unidos. Actualmente es un candidato para ser incluido en la lista de las especies a punto de exctincin. El excarabajo C. tranquebarica se encuentra en toda la regin suroeste de los Estados Unidos, incluyendo las mencionadas dunas. Examinamos las diferencias del microhbitat entre C. L. albissima y C. tranquebaria. Los resultados de junio de 1999 de un conteo de adultos y la medida del porcentaje de humedad y contenido de san en el suelo realizado en 53 vados de interdunas indicaron una correlacin significantivamente negativa entre la humedad del suelo y un ndice del nmero relativo de adultos de C. L. albissima y C. tranquebaria, y una correlacin positiva entre la humedad del suelo y el conteo directo de adultos de C. tranquebarica. El ndice del nmero relativo de los adultos de las dos especies no se relacion con el contenido de sal. La proporcin relativa de larvas de las dos especies por vado correspondi significantivamente a la proporcin relativa de los adultos de las dos especies. La causa de las diferencias de microhbitat para el suelo relativamente hmedo o seco puede ser debido a mltiples factores, todava no estudiados, incluyendo una prefercia de las hembras para la oviposicin y la competencia larval.
10.2307/3672904|The mound shape, entrance hole direction, and mound temperature of Pogonomyrmex occidentalis were evaluated in southern Utah, to determine if ants might shape their mounds to preferentially absorb morning sunlight. As predicted, the south- and east-facing slopes were significantly shallower (by approximately 4 degrees) than the north- and west-facing slopes. Entrance holes were found on the southeast side of the mounds 83% of the time. In the morning, east-facing mound slopes were found to warm significantly faster than west-facing mound slopes and off-mound temperatures that were sunlit or shaded. By the afternoon there were no significant differences in temperature among the sides of a mound. These results support the hypothesis that P. occidentalis actively shape their mounds to take advantage of the heat from the morning sun. /// La forma del monticulo, la direction de la entrada del hoyo, y la temperatura del montculo de Pogonomyrmex occidentalis fueron evaluadas en el sur de Utah, para determinar si la hormigas construyen sus montculos para absorber preferencialmente la luz solar matutina. Como se predijo, las vertientes orientadas al sur y al este estuvieron significativamente menos profundas (aproximadamente 4 grados) que las vertientes orientadas al norte y al oeste. Las entradas a los hoyos se encontraron en el lado sureste de los monticulos 83% de las veces. En la maana, los montculos orientados hacia el este se calentaron significantivamente ms rpido que los orientados al oeste, as como las temperaturas fuera de montculos que fueron alumbrados por el sol o sombreados. En la tarde no hubo una diferencia significativa entre las temperaturas de los lados de los montculos. Los resultados apoyan la hiptesis de que P. occidentalis activamente moldea sus montculos para sacar ventaja del calor solar matutino.
10.2307/3672905|Rio Grande sucker (Catostomus plebeius) was once common in the Rio Grande basin; however, its current status in New Mexico is unknown. We surveyed 20 streams for Rio Grande sucker in the Carson and Santa Fe National Forests in northern New Mexico. Rio Grande sucker were found in 3 streams on the Carson National Forest. In 2 of these streams Rio Grande sucker co-occurred with white sucker (Catostomus commersoni). On the Santa Fe National Forest, Rio Grande sucker occupied 11 streams in the Jemez River drainage and 2 streams in the Chama River drainage. Rio Grande sucker co-occurred with white sucker in 1 of the 2 streams draining into the Chama River drainage. The abundance of Rio Grande sucker was inversely proportional to stream gradient. /// El matalote del Rio Grande (Catostomus plebeius) antes era muy comn en la cuenca del Ro Grande. Sin embargo, su estado actual en Nuevo Mxico es desconocido. Se condujo una investigacin en 20 arroyos en los Bosques Nacionales de Carson y Santa Fe en el norte de Nuevo Mxico, buscando al matalote del Ro Grande. El matalote fue encontrado en 3 arroyos en el Bosque Nacional Carson. En 2 de estos arroyos el matalote del Ro Grande ocurri con el matalote blanco (Catostomus commersoni). En el Bosque Nacional Santa Fe, el matalote del Ro Grande se encontr en 11 arroyos en la cuenca del Ro Jmez y 2 arroyos de la cuenca del Ro Chama. El matalote del Ro Grande convivio con el matalote blanco en 1 de los 2 arroyos que desembocan en la cuenca del Ro Chama. La abundancia del matalote del Ro Grande fue inversamente proporcional la pendiente del arroyo.
10.2307/3672906|From 1997 to 1999, I surveyed for the goldstripe darter (Etheostoma parvipinne), an endangered species in Missouri, to describe its distribution and abundance at 3 scales. At the largest scale, I sampled all small, flowing streams on Crowley's Ridge and the Ozark fall-line in southeastern Missouri. I identified 5 spatially distinct communities by their unique species: the goldstripe darter community, the gizzard shad (Dorosoma cepedianum) community, the orangethroat darter (Etheostoma spectabile)--central stoneroller (Campostoma anomalum) community, the banded pygmy sunfish (Elassoma zonatum) community, and the blacktail shiner (Cyprinella venusta)--blunt-nose minnow (Pimephales notatus) community. Despite exhaustive sampling, I did not find goldstripe darters at Romine Spring, the 1 historic locality on the Ozark fall-line, nor anywhere else on the Ozark fall-line. I did find them in the 3 historically sampled streams in the Holly Ridge area on Crowley's Ridge, plus 3 previously unsampled streams in the immediate vicinity. At an intermediate scale, I failed to capture goldstripe darters in 12 of 18 streams in the Holly Ridge area. The streams without goldstripe darters were associated with human modifications such as gravel mining, small impoundments, household effluent, and pipe culverts. At the smallest scale, I collected 106 goldstripe darters at 15 sites on 6 streams. I estimated total length of habitat for goldstripe darters in Missouri to be 5.7 km of stream. I found that there were more goldstripe darters in a larger area than previously thought; however, goldstripe darters were still one of the rarest fish species in Missouri. /// Entre 1997 y 1999, mostr por Etheostoma parvipinne, en peligro de ser extinquido entre el estado de Missouri (EEUU). Quera investigar la abundancia y distribucin en 3 escalas. En la escala ms grande, hech 66 muestras en todos los riachuelos pequeos en el Cordoncillo Crowley y en la frontera entre la Altiplanicie Ozark y el Llano Mississippi. Identifiqu, por sus especies nicos, 5 comunidades distintos in distribucin espacial: la comunidad E. parvipinne, la comunidad Dorosoma cepedianum, la comunidad Etheostoma spectabile--Campostoma anomalum, la comunidad Elassoma zonatum, y la comunidad Cyprinella venusta--Pimephales notatus. A pesar de un exceso de empeo, no coleccion E. parvipinne en el Manantial Rmine, el nico sitio de la frontera Ozark donde colleccionaron E. parvipinne en el pasado. Lo hall en los 3 riachuelos en el Cordoncillo Crowley donde fueron colleccionados en el pasado; y, lo hall en 3 otros riachuelos en la misma vencindad. En una escala intermedia, 12 de los 18 riachuelos en esta rea faltaron E. parvipinne, y fueron asociados con minerias de grava, presas pequeas, agua domestico desechado, y cruces de camino. En la escala ms pequea, captur 106 E. parvipinne en 15 sitios en 6 riachuelos. Calcul la largura total de habitat de ser 5.7 km de riachuelo. A consecuencia desta investigacin, descubr que era ms E. parvipinne en un rea ms grande de lo que era supuesto antes; sin embargo, E. parvipinne no cambi de ser uno de los especies de pez ms raros en Missouri.
10.2307/3672907|I compared diets of prickly sculpin, Cottus asper, and juvenile fall-run chinook salmon, Oncorhynchus tshawytscha, in the lower Mokelumne River, California, from January through June during 1998 and 1999. Prickly sculpin fed primarily on chironomid (Diptera) larvae and hydroptilid and hydropsychid (Trichoptera) larvae. Juvenile chinook salmon fed on zooplankton, plus chironomid, hydroptilid, and hydropsychid pupae. Both supplemented their diets with several other prey items, including larval Sacramento suckers, Catostomus occidentalis. Their diets did not overlap significantly any time during the study. Each species fed more as time progressed in both years. A significant relationship between prey item and fish size was observed for juvenile chinook salmon in 1998 and for both species in 1999. The pattern of growth for chinook salmon and prickly sculpin suggests increased feeding might be more related to water temperature than increase in size. I observed no predation by prickly sculpin on juvenile chinook salmon during this study, although sculpin eggs and larvae were infrequently observed in salmon stomachs. /// Compar las dietas de adultos dell pez Cottus asper y de juveniles de otoo del salmon Oncorhynchus tshawytscha en la porcin rio abajo del Ro Mokelumne, California, de enero a junio de 1998 y 1999. Cottus asper se aliment principalmente de larvas de quironomida (Diptera), hidroptilida e hidropsiquida (Tricptera), mientras que el salmn juvenil se aliment de zooplancton y crislidas de quironomida, hidroptilida e hidropsiquida. Ambas suplementaron sus dietas con otras presas, incluyendo larvas del matalote de Sacramento, Catostomus occidentalis. Sus dietas no se sobrepusieron significativamente en ningn perodo durante el estudio. En los dos aos cada especie se aliment ms a travs del tiempo. Se observ una relacion significativa entre el tamao del pez y la presa del salmn juvenil en 1998 y en ambas especies en 1999. El patrn de crecimiento de ambas especies sgiere que el aumento de alimentacin puede tener ms relacin con la temperatura del aqua que con el tamao del pez. No se observ depredacin de C. asper al salmn juvenil durante este estudio aunque infrecuentemente se observaron huevos y larvas de C. asper en el estmago del salmn.
10.2307/3672908|A 1993-1994 study of the reproductive biology of Cnemidophorus communis in the Chamela region, Jalisco, Mxico, revealed that males reached sexual maturity at a snout-vent length (SVL) of 59 mm, and females reached sexual maturity at a SVL of 68 mm. Males exhibited maximum testicular activity from May through October, decreasing in November, and females were reproductive, having vitellogenic follicles or oviductal eggs, from July through October. The mean number of vitellogenic follicles was 6.69  0.59 (2-10, n = 13) and mean clutch size of oviductal eggs was 4.8  0.44 (3-9, n = 17). Clutch size and egg mass were positively correlated with SVL but relative clutch mass remained constant among females and years. Proximal climatic factors influenced timing and intensity of reproduction in C. communis, but the historical effect of foraging mode on teiid lizard morphology constrains relative clutch mass. /// Un estudio de 1993-1994 sobre la biologa reproductiva de Cnemidophorus communis en la regin de Chamela, Jalisco, Mxico, revel que los machos alcanzaron la madurez sexual a una longitud hocico-cloaca (LHC) de 59 mm, y las hembras a una LHC de 68 mm. Los machos exhibieron la mxima actividad testicular de mayo a octubre, decreciendo en noviembre, y las hembras estuvieron reproductivas, presentaron folculos vitelognicos o huevos oviductales de julio a octubre. El nmero medio de folculos vitelognicos fue de 6.69  0.59 (2-10, n = 13) y el tamao promedo de la puesta de huevos oviductales fue de 4.8  0.44 (3-9, n = 17). El tamao de la puesta y masa de los huevos estuvieron positivamente correlacionados con la LHC, pero la masa relativa de la puesta permaneci constante entre hembras y aos. Los factores climticos proximales influyeron en el patrn temporal y en la intensidad de la reproduccin en C. communis, pero el efecto histrico de modo de forrajeo en la morfologa de las lagartijas teidas restringe la masa relativa de la puesta.
10.2307/3672909|Reproduction in female razorback musk turtles, Sternotherus carinatus, from southeastern Oklahoma and central Arkansas was examined. At both sites ovulation apparently occurs from late April or early May to at least early July, with 2 or 3 clutches typically produced per year. Arkansas females grow faster than Oklahoma females, reach maturity at larger sizes (95-100 versus 85-90 mm carapace length) but younger ages (after 5-6 versus 8 winters), reach larger adult sizes (mean carapace length 117 versus 102 mm), produce heavier eggs (5.7 versus 5.2 g), and bigger (3.8 versus 2.3 eggs) and heavier clutches (21.6 versus 11.6 g). For both populations, clutch size increases with body size; egg size also increases with body size, but the relationship is weaker. Unstandardized egg and clutch size exhibit no clear relationship; however, when effects of body size are removed, egg size and clutch size are negatively correlated. Clutch mass relative to body mass does not differ between sites, but relative egg size is greater in Oklahoma. /// La reproduccin de las hembras de la tortuga Sternotherus carinatus fue examinado en el sureste del estado de Oklahoma y en el centro del estado de Arkansas. En ambos lugares la ovulacin aparentamente ocurre desde fines de abril o la primera parte de mayo hasta la primera parte de julio, con 2 o 3 puestas tipicamente producidas cada ao. Las hembras en Arkansas crecen ms rpido que las hembras en Oklahoma, maduran a tamaos ms grandes (95-100 contra 85-90 mm en largo de la concha) pero a menores edades (despus de 5-6 contra 8 inviernos), logran tamaos adultos ms grandes (promedio longitudinal de la concha, 117 versus 102 mm), producen huevos ms pesados (5.7 contra 5.2 g), y puestas ms grandes (3.8 contra 2.3 huevos) y ms pesadas (21.6 contra 11.6 g). Para ambas poblaciones, el tamao de la puesta aumenta con el tamao corporal; el tamao del huevo tambin aumenta con el tamao corporal, pero la relacin es menos fuerte. El tamao no estandarizado del huevo y de la puesta no exhibieron una relacin clara entre s; sin embargo, cuando los efectos del tamao corporal son re movdos, el tamao del huevo y de la puesta estn correlacionados negativamente. La masa de la puesta relativa a la masa corporal no se diferenci entre sitios, pero la masa relativa del tamao del huevo es ms grande en Oklahoma.
10.2307/3672910|The Pacific pond turtle (Clemmys marmorata) is a widespread aquatic turtle in the Pacific states, yet relatively little is known about its ecology. We radio-tracked 34 individuals during an 8 year period in 4 small coastal creeks in central California to determine their use of terrestrial upland habitats. Most of our turtles left the drying arroyos during late summer and returned after winter floods. Turtles spent an average of 111 days at these land refuges, which were located in woodland and coastal sage scrub habitats an average of 50 m from arroyos. Most gravid females left the creeks during June to oviposit in sunny upland habitats with low vegetation structure, such as grazed pastures. Nest sites were an average of 28 m from creeks. Terrestrial basking sites averaged 4.5 m from streams, but were only used for a few days. We believe the use of terrestrial upland sites was related to the Mediterranean climate and the resulting unique hydrodynamics of the small coastal arroyos (dry in summer and flooding in winter). /// La tortuga Clemmys marmorata es una tortuga acutica ampliamente dispersa en los estados del Pacfico, sin embargo, se sabe muy poco acerca de su ecologa. Equipamos a 34 individuos con radios durante un perodo de 8 aos en 4 pequeos riachuelos costaneros en el centro de California para determinar el uso de hbitats terrestres tierra arriba. La mayora de las tortugas abandon los arroyos casi secos a fines de verano y regresaron despus de las inundaciones de invierno. Las tortugas pasaron un promedio de 111 das en estos refugios terrestres, los cuales estaban localizados en hbitats como bosques y matorrales de artemisa costaneros a un promedio de 50 metros de los arroyos. Las hembras grvidas dejaron los arroyos durante junio para desovar en hbitats asoleados tierra arriba con poca vegetacin tales como pastos cortos. Los nidos estuvieron a un promedio de 28 metros de los arroyos. Los sitios terrestres para asolearse promediaron 4.5 metros de los arroyos, pero fueron usados solamente por pocos das. Creemos que el uso de hbitats terrestres tierra arriba se relaciona al clima mediterrneo y a la peculiar hidrodinmica resultante de los pequeos arroyos costaneros (secos en el verano e inundados en el invierno).
10.2307/3672911|We studied brown-headed cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism on the Arizona Bell's vireo (Vireo bellii arizonae) and the yellow-breasted chat (Icteria virens) to determine if removing adult and nestling cowbirds and addling cowbird eggs resulted in increased host nesting success. Our investigation took place in Arizona along the lower Colorado River at Bill Williams River National Wildlife Refuge. At 3 plots adult cowbirds were removed by trapping (Treatment A); at 3 plots adult cowbirds were removed and cowbird eggs were addled (Treatment B); and at 3 plots no cowbird control was implemented (Reference plots). A significantly greater proportion of vireo nests were parasitized on Reference plots than either treatment type across the study. The proportion of successful vireo nests was not significantly greater across Reference and Treatment plots during 1997, but was significantly greater in 1998. The proportion of successful and unsuccessful nests did not significantly vary across treatment types for the chat in either year. There was a lower proportion of singly and multiply parasitized nests on Treatment plots compared to Reference plots during 1998, but not during 1997. Predation was the leading cause of nest failure for Bell's vireos and yellow-breasted chats in 1997 and 1998. /// Estudiamos el parasitismo del vaquero cabeza caf (Molothrus ater) sobre el vireo de Bell de Arizona (Vireo belli arizonae), y el gritn pecho amarillo (Icteria virens) para determinar si al retirar vaqueros cabeza caf o al agregar huevos del mismo, aumentaba el xito de nidacin del ave hospedera. Nuestra investigacion fue en Arizona a lo largo del bajo Ro Colorado en el Refugio Bill Williams River para la Vida Silvestre (NWR). En 3 parcelas se atraparon y fueron eliminados del rea adultos del vaquero cabeza caf (tratamiento A); en 3 parcelas se eliminaron adultos de vaquero cabeza caf y se agregaron huevos de vaquero cabeza caf (tratamiento B); y 3 parcelas no se implement ningn control de vaquero cabeza caf (parcelas de referencia). En este estudio, una proporcin significativamente mayor de nidos de vireo fueron parasitados en las estaciones de referencia con respecto al resto de las parcelas de tratamiento. Durante 1997, no hubo una proporcin significativamente mayor de nidos exitosos de vireo en las parcelas de referencia, ni en las otras parcelas de tratamiento. Sin embargo, durante 1998, hubo una proporcin significativamente mayor de nidos exitosos de vireo en las parcelas de tratamiento que en las parcelas de referencia. En el caso del gritn pecho amarillo, la proporcin de nidos exitosos y no existosos no vari significativamente en ninguna de las parcelas en ninguno de los aos analizados. Durante 1998, hubo una menor proporcin de nidos parasitados tanto nicos como mltiples en las parcelas de tratamiento en comparacin con las parcelas de referencia, pero no hubo diferencias durante 1997. Depredacin fue la causa ms importante de prdida de nidos tanto para el vireo de Bell como para el gritn pecho amarillo durante 1997 y 1998.
10.2307/3672912|Biodiversity patterns of non-volant mammals on oceanic and land-bridge islands have been well documented, but little information is available about the biodiversity of barrier islands. We compared the mammalian fauna of the barrier islands of Texas with the adjacent mainland by using historical trapping records and recent field work. The barrier islands of Texas have a depauperate mammalian fauna when compared to that of the Texas coast. A number of factors have influenced this, including hurricane events, mainland species pool for the island to draw upon, and the degree of isolation of the island from the mainland. Differences in species richness and composition among islands can be attributed to the biotic province to which an island is adjacent and island area. Differences in species richness among island complexes can be attributed to island complex length. Regression analysis demonstrates a significant correlation between species richness and island area, and a highly correlated relationship between richness and island complex length. Two similarity indices indicate that the mammalian fauna of islands within each complex is more similar than the fauna between complexes. Two nested subset analyses reveal the islands contain a nested distribution of mainland species. It appears that the dearth of mammals on the islands has not resulted from a lack of colonization events, but rather the inability of mammals to survive in the harsher island environments. /// Patrones de biodiversidad en mamferos no voladores que habitan en islas ocenicas y en islas conectadas a tierra firme han sido bien documentados, pero hay muy poca informacin disponible acerca de la biodiversidad en islas tipo barra. Comparamos la fauna mamfera de islas tipo barra en Texas con aquella presente en el continente adyacente, usando registros histricos de captura, y trabajo de campo reciente. Las islas tipo barra de Texas tienen una fauna mamfera empobrecida en comparacin a la fauna costea de Texas. Un nmero de factores han influenciado en esto, incluyedo huracanes, la fuente de especies continentales disponibles para colonizar la isla, y el grado de aislamiento de la isla. Diferencias en la composicin y riqueza de las especies entre islas pueden ser atribuidas a la provincia bitica adyacente a la isla y el rea de la isla. Diferencias en la riqueza de especies entre complejos de islas pueden ser atribuidas a la longitud del complejo. El anlysis de regresin muestra una correlacin significantiva entre la riqueza de las especies de la isla y el rea de la isla, y una correlacin muy alta entre la riqueza del complejo y la longitud del complejo. Dos ndices de similitud indican que la fauna mamfera de las islas dentro de cada complejo es ms similar que la fauna entre los complejos. Dos anlisis de subgrupos incluidos revelan que las islas contienen un subgrupo de especies continentales. Aparentemente la escasez de mamferos en las islas no ha sido el resultado de falta de eventos de colonizacin, sino en la inhabilidad de los mamferos para sobrevivir en los ambientes ms rigurosos de las islas.
10.2307/3672913|The pattern of geographic variation in morphologic characters of the black bear (Ursus americanus) was assessed at 13 sites in the eastern United States and Canada. Thirty measurements from 206 males and 207 females were recorded to the nearest 0.01 mm using digital calipers and subjected to principal components analysis. A matrix of correlations among skull characters was computed, and the first 3 principal components were extracted. These accounted for 90.5% of the variation in the character set for males and 87.1% for females. Three-dimensional projection of localities onto principal components showed that, for males and females, largest individuals occurred in the more southern localities (e.g., males--Louisiana-Mississippi, eastern Texas; females--Louisiana-eastern Texas) and the smallest animals occurred in the northernmost locality (Quebec). Generally, bears were similar morphologically to those in nearby geographic areas. For males, correlations between morphologic variation and environmental factors indicated a significant relationship between size variation and mean January temperature, mean July temperature, mean annual precipitation, latitude, and actual evapotranspiration; for females, a significant relationship was observed between morphologic variation and mean annual temperature, mean January temperature, mean July temperature, latitude, and actual evapotranspiration. There was no significant correlation for either sex between environmental factors and projections onto components II and III. /// El patrn de variacin geogrfica en caracteres morfolgicos del oso negro (Ursus americanus) fue determinado en 13 sitios en el este de los Estados Unidos y Canad. Treinta medidas de 206 machos y 207 hembras fueron registradas lo ms cercano a 0.01 mm usando calibradores digitales y fueron sometidas a anlisis de componentes principales. Una matriz de correlaciones entre caracteres craniales fue calculada y los primeros tres componentes principales fueron extraidos. Estos explicaron el 90.5% de la variacin en el grupo de caracteres para los machos y el 87.1% para las hembras. Proyecciones tridimensionales de las localidades en componentes principales mostraron que para machos y hembras, los individuos ms grandes ocurrieron en las localidades ms al sur (e.g., machos--Louisiana-Mississippi, el este de Texas; hembras--Louisiana-el este de Texas) y los animales ms pequeos ocurrieron en la localidad ms al norte (Quebec). Generalmente los osos fueron morfologicamente similares a aquellos en reas geogrficas cercanas. Para los machos, las correlaciones entre variacin morfolgica y factores ambientales indicaron una relacin significativa entre variacin de tamao y promedio de temperatura en enero, promedio de temperatura en julio, promedio anual de precipitacin, latitud y evapotranspiracin real; para las hembras, una relacin significativa fue observada entre variacin de tamao y promedio de temperatura anual, promedio de temperatura en enero, promedio de temperatura en julio, latitud y evapotranspiracin real. No hubo correlaciones significativas para ningn sexo entre factores ambientales y proyecciones en componentes II y III.
10.2307/3672914|Red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) use cavity, bolus, and underground nests for sleeping, protection, and rearing of young. We compared occurrence and structural characteristics of bolus nests at midden sites (area surrounding the central cache) for red squirrels in the Pinaleo Mountains with those in the White Mountains of southeastern Arizona. Bolus nests were more prevalent in the White mountains, possibly as a result of differing habitat structure; forests of the Pinaleo Mountains had significantly (P < 0.05) larger basal area, greater stem densities, and there was less grass on the forest floor than in the White Mountains. Midden sites with more potential cavity nest sites were more likely to have only cavity nests present. Bolus nests were constructed mostly of lichens in the Pinaleo Mountains and of grasses in the White Mountains, whereas most other nest and nest tree characteristics were similar between locations, although nest trees were further from the main cache location at middens in the Pinaleo Mountains. /// Las ardillas rojas (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) utilizan nidos de cavidad, del bola y bajaterra para dormir, proteccin, y crianza. Comparamos la ocurrencia y charactersticas estructuales de los nidos de bola en territorios de ardillas rojas en las Montaas Pinaleo con arquellas de las Montaas Blancas del sureste de Arizona. Nidos de bola prevelecen en las Montaas Blancas, posiblemente como resultado de las diferencias en la estructura del hbitat; los bosques del las Montaas Pinaleos tuvierion un rea basal significativamente ms grande (P < 0.05), mayores densidades de tallo y tocones, y hubo menos pasto en el suelo quen las Montaas Blancas. Territorios con mayor potencial de tener nidos de cavidad fueron ms propensos a tener solamente nidos de cavidad. Los nidos de bola estaban constuidos en su mayora de lquenes in las Montaas Pinaleo y de pasto en las Montaas Blancas, mientras que las caratersticas de la mayoria de otros nidos y rboles nidales fueron similares entre ambos lugares. Sin embargo, rboles nidales fueron mas alejaods del lugar principal de almancenamiento en territorios de las Montaas Pinaleos.
10.2307/3672915|Kangaroo rats have been described as primarily granivorous; however, they also consume green vegetation. We investigated selectivity of grasses by kangaroo rats (Dipodomys ordii and D. merriami) presented with 4 common perennial grass species from the Jornada basin in the Chihuahuan Desert. All grass species offered were utilized, and there were differences in utilization. Our results suggest that water content may underlie these differences, although other factors are not excluded. Merriam's kangaroo rats removed more tillers from each tussock of grass than Ord's kangaroo rat. Ord's kangaroo rat may select grasses with higher water content per tiller. /// Las ratas canguro se han descrito como una especie principalmente granvora; sin embargo, tambin consumen vegetacin verde. Investigamos la selectividad de las ratas canguro (Dipodomys ordii y D. merriami) presentadas con 4 especies de pasto perenne comunes del llano La Jornada en el Desierto Chihuahuense. Todas las especies de pasto ofrecidas fueron utilizadas, y hubo diferencias en la utilizacin. Nuestros resultados sugieren que el contenido de agua puede explicar estas diferencias, aunque otros factores no se excluyen. Las ratas canguro de Merriam utilizaron ms vstagos de cada rama de pastos que las ratas canguro de Ord. La rata canguro de Ord puede seleccionar pastos con un contenido ms alto de en agua por vstago.
10.2307/3672916|We examined short-term trends in relative abundance and species richness of breeding and wintering grassland birds before (1996) and after (1997, 1998) a prescribed burn in a mesquite-invaded, desert grassland at Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona. We surveyed birds and sampled vegetation along 1-km line transects bisecting 14 (7 control, 7 burn) 25-ha plots located randomly within a burn and adjacent control unit. Following a spring burn that was moderate in intensity and patchy in areal extent, we observed that ground cover was affected more strongly by burning than mesquite (Prosopis) cover, smaller mesquite were affected more strongly by burning than larger mesquite, and mortality of mesquite was low. No change in total abundance of birds was detected on the burn unit following fire for either wintering or breeding birds; however, species richness of breeding birds decreased in the first year post-burn. During the breeding season, mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) increased, whereas Botteri's sparrows (Aimophila botterii), Cassin's sparrows (Aimophila cassinii), and cactus wrens (Campylorhynchus brunneicapillus) decreased in relative abundance following fire. During the wintering season, ladder-backed woodpeckers (Picoides scalaris) and vesper sparrows (Pooecetes gramineus) increased and cactus wrens decreased in relative abundance following fire. Beyond species-level trends, we found stronger evidence of trends and greater magnitudes of relative change for breeding species associated with open grasslands compared to those associated with shrubs. The use of spring burns on the Refuge will likely improve conditions for open-grassland species that were historically more abundant by killing smaller mesquite and reducing mesquite recruitment. However, more intense and extensive fires will be required to reduce the presence of larger mesquite. Such fires would likely have a greater impact on birds associated with shrubs, and consequently, a greater impact on the avian community as a whole. /// Examinamos las tendencias de corto plazo en la abundancia relativa y la riqueza de especies de aves de pastizal anidantes e invernales antes (1996) y despus (1997, 1998) de una quema prescrita en un pastizal desrtico invadido por mezquite en el Refugio Nacional de Vida Silvestre Buenos Aires, Arizona. Realizamos monitoros de aves y muestros de vegetacin a travs de transectos lineares de 1 km de largo, cruzando 14 parcelas (7 de control, 7 quemados) de 25 ha seleccionados al azar en una zona quemada y en una unidad de control adyacente. Despus de una quema en la primavera, moderada en intensidad e irregular en su extensin areal, observamos que la cobertura del suelo fue ms afectada por el fuego que la cobertura de mezquite (Prosopis), los mezquites pequeos fueron ms afectados por el fuego que los mezquites de mayor tamao, y la mortalidad de mezquites fue baja. No detectamos cambios en la abundancia total de aves anidantes ni invernales en la zona incendiada; sin embargo, la riqueza de especies de aves anidantes disminuy en el primer ao despus de la quema. Durante la temporada de reproduccin, las palomas huilotas (Zenaida macroura) se incrementaron, mientras que los zacatoneros de Botteri (Aimophila botterii), los zacatoneros de Cassin (Aimophila cassinii), y las matracas desrticas (Campylorhynchus brunneicapillus) disminuyeron en abundancia relativa despus de la quema. Durante la temporada invernal, los carpinteros listados (Picoides scalaris) y los gorriones coliblancos (Pooecetes gramineus) se incrementaron, mientras que las matracas desrticas disminuyeron en abundancia relativa despus de la quema. Ms all de las tendencias a nivel de especie, encontramos mayor evidencia de las tendencias y mayores magnitudes en el cambio relativo de las especies anidantes asociadas con pastizales abiertos en comparacin con aquellas especies asociadas con matorrales. El uso de quemas durante la primavera en el Refugio probablemente mejorar las condiciones para especies de pastizales abiertos que histricamente fueron ms abundantes, al matar los mezquites ms pequeos y reducir el reclutamiento de mezquite. Sin embargo, se requerirn quemas ms intensas y extensas para reducir la presencia de mezquites de mayor tamao. Dichas quemas probablemente tendrn un mayor impacto en las aves asociadas con matorrales, y consecuentemente, un mayor impacto en la comunidad de aves en general.
10.2307/3672491|The subspecific status of the Louisiana black bear (Ursus americanus luteolus) and Florida black bear (U. a. floridanus) were assessed using morphologic features to determine their distinctness in relation to one another and to the black bear (U. a. americanus). Forty-four dimensions were recorded from skulls of 125 male and 127 female adult (4.5 years or older) bears. Results showed skulls of U. a. luteolus, U. a. floridanus, and U. a. americanus to be similar in morphology. However, features of U. a. luteolus, and U. a. floridanus tended, in general, to be larger and shaped differently than those of U. a. americanus. Differences between measurements of U. a. luteolus and U. a. floridanus were less apparent than those between either of these taxa and U. a. americanus. For U. a. luteolus and U. a. floridanus, means of most characters differed only slightly, and ranges of all measurements overlapped to some degree. Yet, small numbers of characters that reflected molar tooth measurements or features relating to dentition, height of frontal region, and skull length and width appeared to correctly classify these taxa in most cases. Results were interpreted to support the subspecific recognition of U. a. luteolus, U. a. floridanus, and U. a. americanus. /// Con base en carcteres morfolgicos se evalu el estatus subespecfico del oso negro de Louisiana (Ursus americanus luteolus) y del oso negro de Florida (U. a. floridanus) con la finalidad de determinar las diferencias entre ellos y con el oso negro (U. a. americanus). Se consideraron 44 carcteres craneales de 125 machos y 127 hembras, todos ellos adultos (4.5 aos de edad o ms). Los resultados muestran que los crneos de U. a. luteolus, U. a. floridanus y U. a. americanus comparten similitudes morfolgicas. Sin embargo, las caractersticas craneales de U. a. luteolus y U. a. floridanus tendieron a ser ms largas y de forma diferente que las de U. a. americanus. Las diferencias entre las medidas de U. a. luteolus y U. a. floridanus fueron menos aparentes que las que se encontraron entre estos taxa y U. a. americanus. Para U. a. luteolus y U. a. floridanus, los promedios de la mayora de los carcteres difirieron ligeramente, y los rangos de todas las medidas se sobrepusieron en algn grado. Sin embargo, los carcteres que permitieron clasificar a estos taxa correctamente en la mayora de los casos fueron: las medidas de los molares, los carcteres relacionados con la denticin, la altura de la regin frontal, y la longitud y anchura del crneo. Los resultados se interpretaron para apoyar el reconocimiento subespecfico de U. a. luteolus, U. a. floridanus y U. a. americanus.
10.2307/3672492|Researchers often rely on fatty acid scent tablets and commercial attractants to lure animals to specific locations. Feces have been tested as attractants in a liquidized state, but not in their natural form, which provides a visual cue along with an olfactory cue. We used 1-m diameter tracking stations of sand and soil to record tracks of animals that visited randomly assigned feces from captive coyotes (Canis latrans) and bobcats (Lynx rufus) and fatty acid scent tablets. Stations were established each season for 1 year and distributed equally between prairie and woodland habitats. We detected no difference in coyote visits to stations baited with coyote feces or bobcat feces. Likewise, bobcats showed no preference for 1 feces type over the other. Both bobcats and coyotes preferred feces to fatty acid scent tablets. /// Investigadores muchas veces dependen de tabletas aromatizadas de cidos grasos y atractantes comerciales para atraer animales a lugares especficos. Heces han sido examinadas como atractantes en el estado licuado, y no en su estado natural lo cual provee un estmulo tanto visual como olfativo. Utilizamos estaciones de rastreo de 1 m de dimetro compuestas de arena y tierra para documentar huellas de animales que visitaron heces de coyotes (Canis latrans) y gatos monts (Lynx rufus) cautivos asignadas al azar, y tabletas aromatizadas de cidos grasos. Las estaciones de rastreo fueron establecidas en cada poca del ao por un ao, y distribuidas en forma equitativa entre hbitats de pradera y bosque. No detectamos diferencias entre visitas hechas por coyotes a estaciones de rastreo con heces de coyotes o gatos monts. De la misma manera, gatos monts no demostraron preferencia por un tipo de heces a otro. Ambos, coyotes y gatos monts, prefirieron heces a tabletas aromatizadas de cidos grasos.
10.2307/3672493|The desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) population increased at Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge, southeastern Arizona, with semidesert restoration efforts for masked bobwhite quail (Colinus virginianus ridgwayi). However, use of resources by mule deer in this semidesert ecosystem is unknown. We used point transect sampling at 971 locations to describe areas used by desert mule deer relative to sex, age, and distribution on the Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge in 1996. We observed 219 groups of deer (50% adult females, 33% adult males, 17% juveniles and fawns, and 29% unknown age or sex) in 7 vegetation associations. We divided survey areas into quadrants (i.e., patches) to account for the mosaic of vegetation associations created by restoration efforts. There was no difference between the expected use of patch types by deer and availability in homogenous associations or in mixed patch arrangements. Because deer were more difficult to detect in dense tree cover, we analyzed habitat use with and without the dense tree association (i.e., >60% mesquite [Prosopis]) to account for this potential bias. Deer were widespread throughout the refuge. During summer and autumn mule deer used the sub-shrub-grass and the cactus (Opuntia) associations more than would be expected by chance alone. Current management practices on Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge for masked bobwhite quail appear to benefit desert mule deer. /// La poblacin de los ciervos bura del desierto (Odocoiles hemionus eremicus) aument en el refugio nacional de vida silvestre Buenos Aires, al suroeste de Arizona, con esfuerzos de restauracin del semidesierto para las codornices enmascaradas (Colinus virginianus ridgwayi). Sin embargo, el uso de los recursos en este semidesierto por parte de los ciervos bura del desierto es desconocido. Usamos transectos puntuales en 971 localidades para describir reas usadas por los ciervos en relacin con el sexo, edad y distribucin en el refugio nacional de vida silvestre Buenos Aires en 1996. Observamos 219 grupos de los ciervos (50% hembras adultas, 33% machos adultos, 17% juveniles y cervatos y 29% de edad o sexo desconocidos) en 7 asociaciones vegetales. Dividimos las reas de muestreo en cuadrantes (parchas) para tomar en cuenta los mosaicos de vegetacin que fueron creados en los esfuerzos de la restauracin. No hubo diferencia entre el uso de parches esperado por parte de los ciervos y de la disponibilidad en asociaciones homogneas o reas de parches mezclados, Debido a que los ciervos fueron ms difciles de detectar en reas con cubiertas de rboles densas, analizamos el uso del hbitat con y sin densa asociacin de rboles (i.e., >60% mesquite [Prosopis]) para tomar en cuenta el posible sesgo. Los ciervos estuvieron ampliamente distribuidos en todo el refugio. Durante el verano y el otoo los ciervos usaron las asociaciones con hierba subarbusta-pastizal y con cactus (Opuntia) ms de lo esperado al azar. Las prcticas de manejo en refugio nacional de vida silvestre Buenos Aires para las codornices enmascaradas parecen beneficiar a los ciervos bura del desierto.
10.2307/3672494|The Central Arizona Project canal system could restrict movements of mammals across Avra Valley, Arizona. However, the Wildlife Mitigation Corridor was established to provide access for animals over the Tucson Aqueduct of the Central Arizona Project and allow movement of animals across Avra Valley. We recorded tracks of desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus), collared peccaires (Pecari tajacu), and coyotes (Canis latrans) in and out of the Wildlife Mitigation Corridor from August 1996 through July 1997 to determine if animals used the corridor more or less than other canal crossings (i.e., bridges). Deer and collared peccaries used crossings in the corridor more than those outside of the corridor. There was no significant difference between use of crossings by coyotes. Crossings adjacent to water catchments received the highest use by herbivores. /// El sistema de canales del Proyecto de Arizona Central (CAP) podra restringir los desplazamientos de mamferos a travs del Valle Avra, Arizona. Sin embargo, el Corredor de Mitigacin para Fauna Silvestre (WMC) fue establecido para proveer acceso a los animales sobre la acequia Tucson de CAP y para permitir el desplazamiento de los animales a travs del Valle Avra. De agosto de 1996 a julio de 1997, se registraron las huellas de venado bura (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus), jabal de collar (Pecari tajacu), y coyotes (Canis latrans) dentro y fuera del WMC para determinar si los animales usaron el WMC en mayor o menor grado que otros pasaderos o cruces (como, puentes). Venados bura y jabales usaron los pasaderos internos, ms que los de fuera del WMC. No hubo una diferencia significativa entre el uso de los pasaderos por coyotes. Los pasaderos adyacentes a las represas recibieron mayor uso por los herbvoros.
10.2307/3672495|We studied habitat use of shorebirds (Charadriiformes) at a wetland experiencing natural fluctuations in water levels located at Tishomingo National Wildlife Refuge in the southcentral Great Plains. We describe use of macrohabitats (disturbed, deciduous, snags, and mudflat) and microhabitats (dry-land, wet-land, and water) by foraging groups (terrestrial-aquatic gleaner, small aquatic prober-gleaner, aquatic gleaner). Water level was correlated with shorebird abundance. The small aquatic prober-gleaner group comprised 85.9% of the total shorebird community. Shorebirds selected mudflat macrohabitats (P < 0.05) and avoided disturbed, deciduous, and snags. All shorebird groups selected water microhabitat, except for the small aquatic prober-gleaner group that selected wet-land microhabitat (P < 0.05). There was a negative correlation (<tex-math>$r_{\text{s}}=-0.36$</tex-math>, n = 58, P = 0.005) between pool level and number of shorebirds per survey. The relationship of water level and shorebird abundance may have more impact in an unmanaged wetland than managed wetlands. Tishomingo National Wildlife Refuge may be an important stop-over site for small aquatic prober-gleaner species (e.g., western sandpipers, Calidris mauri) that require many stops along their migration routes. /// Estudiamos el uso del hbitat de los pjaros playeros (Charadriiformes) en un humedal que experimentaba fluctuaciones naturales en los niveles del agua situado en el refugio nacional de vida silvestre de Tishomingo en las Grandes Planicies sur-centrales. Describimos el uso de macrohbitats (disturbado, caducifolio, tocones, y lodo) y de microhbitats (tierra-seca, tierra-mojada, y agua) por grupos de forrajeo (espigador terrestre/acutico, sondeador/espigador acutico pequeo, espigador acutico, etc.). El nivel del agua fue correlacionado con la abundancia de los pjaros playeros. El grupo acutico pequeo sondeador/espigador abarc 85.9% de la comunidad total de los pjaros playeros. Los pjaros playeros seleccionaron macrohbitats del lodo (P < 0.05) y evitaron los disturbados, caducifolios, y de tocones. Todos los grupos de pjaros playeros seleccionaron el microhbitat de agua, a excepcin del grupo acutico sondeador/espigador pequeo que seleccion el microhbitat tierra-mojada (P < 0.05). Hubo una correlacin negativa (<tex-math>$r_{\text{s}}=-0.36$</tex-math>, n = 58, P = 0.005) entre el nivel de la poza y el nmero de pjaros playeros por muestra. La relacin entre el nivel del agua y la abundancia del pjaro playero puede tener ms impacto en humedales sin manejo que en humedales manejados. El refugio nacional de la fauna de Tishomingo puede ser un sitio importante de descanso para las especies acuticas pequeas sondeador/espigador (o sea Calidris mauri) que requieren muchas paradas a lo largo de sus rutas de migracin.
10.2307/3672496|The federally endangered northern aplomado falcon (Falco femoralis septentrionalis) disappeared as a breeder from its historic nesting range in the southwestern United States in the early to middle 1900s. Since 1995, a small breeding population has been restored to former range in South Texas grasslands, and interest has escalated in restoring the bird to northern Chihuahuan Desert grasslands in southeastern Arizona and southwestern New Mexico. In these latter areas, intensive livestock grazing and associated shrub (brush) encroachment have been theorized to have contributed importantly to the bird's demise, and thus grazing management has been identified as an important restoration issue. A review of the bird's abundance in the context of the grazing history of these areas suggests it was common when grazing, both by livestock and black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus), was intense and widespread (1880s-1920s) in the bird's habitat. It declined in abundance and disappeared coincident with declines in livestock abundance and the extirpation of prairie dogs (1930s-1940s). Most locations where observers historically encountered the bird had little brush at the time of its demise. In the Chihuahuan Desert grasslands of Arizona, New Mexico, and West Texas where the bird occurred historically, the avian prey base is presently an order of magnitude or more lower than that in higher-rainfall habitats of the bird in eastern Mexico and South Texas. The avian prey base is similarly depauperate where 2 small populations of aplomado falcon exist in Mexico's northern Chihuahuan Desert, and the bird's reproductive success there is lower than that in eastern Mexico. The historic extirpation of prairie dogs caused a reduction in the prey biomass available to diurnally feeding raptors such as the aplomado falcon. Efforts to restore the falcon to Chihuahuan Desert grasslands in the United States ideally should include monitoring the responses of released birds to levels of grazing, to shrub abundance, to prey abundance, and to black-tailed prairie dog colonies should any exist in release areas. /// El halcn aplomado (Falco femoralis septentrionalis), puesto en la lista federal de especies en peligro de extincin, desapareci de su rango histrico de anidacin en el suroeste de los Estado Unidos de principios a mediados de los 1900. Desde 1995, han reestablecido una poblacin pequea de crianza en el rango histrico en los pastizales del sur de Texas, y el inters se ha incrementado en reestablecer el halcn aplomado a los pastizales norteos del desierto Chihuahuense en el sureste de Arizona y el suroeste de Nuevo Mxico. En estas ltimas reas, el pastoreo intensivo de ganado, y la invasin asociada del arbusto se sospechan haber contribuido importantemente a la desaparicin de este pjaro. Entonces, el manejo de pastoreo se ha identificado como importante para la restauracin. Una revisin de la abundancia del pjaro en el contexto de la historia del pastoreo en estas reas sugiere que era comn cuando el pastoreo, tanto por el ganado como por los perritos de la pradera (Cynomys ludovicianus), fue intenso y extenso (dcada de 1880 a dcada de 1920) en el hbitat del pjaro. Declin en abundancia y desapareci coincidiendo con declinaciones en abundancia del ganado y la extirpacin de los perritos de la pradera (1930-1940). La mayora de las localidades donde los observadores ubicaron histricamente el halcn aplomado tenan pocos arbustos cuando desapareci. En los pastizales del desierto Chihuahuense de Arizona, Nuevo Mxico, y oeste de Texas donde el pjaro estaba histricamente, la base de aves de presa es actualmente un orden de magnitud o ms baja que en hbitat con alta precipitacin en el este de Mxico y sur de Texas. La base de aves de presa est semejantemente pobre donde dos poblaciones pequeas de halcn aplomado existen en la parte norte de Mxico en el desierto Chihuahuense y el xito reproductivo de los pjaros all es ms bajo que en el este de Mxico. La extirpacin histrica de los perritos de la pradera caus una reduccin en la biomasa de la presa disponible para alimentacin de los rapaces diurnos tales como el halcn aplomado. Los esfuerzos para reestablecer el halcn a los pastizales del desierto Chihuahuense en los Estados Unidos deben incluir idealmente vigilar la reaccin a pjaros liberados a los niveles del pastoreo, a la abundancia de arbustos, la abundancia de presa, y a las colonias de perritos de la pradera si existen en las reas de liberacin.
10.2307/3672497|Territorial behavior is an important component of the ecology and life history of some species of plethodontid salamanders. It is thought to mediate competition both within and between species and may ultimately determine which species can coexist in a given geographical region. We studied a crucial characteristic of territorial behavior, site tenacity, by monitoring a population of Rich Mountain salamanders (Plethodon ouachitae) in spring 1993 and 1994. We identified 54 naturally occurring cover objects with associated adult salamanders. We visited these cover objects 14 times over the 2 field seasons, observing a total of 152 individual salamanders. Of these, 34 (22.4%) were recaptured at least once. Of the 54 salamanders originally identified, 10 (18.5%) were recaptured under their original cover objects at least once. Recaptured salamanders were found under significantly larger cover objects than animals that were not recaptured, and males were found under significantly larger cover objects than were females. Regression analyses revealed significant, positive relationships between size of cover object and total number of individual salamanders observed, total number of recaptures, and number of individuals recaptured. No relationship between size of cover object and size of salamander was detected. We also examined the ability of adults of P. ouachitae to home to cover objects by displacing them 5 m from point of capture. Significantly more (23.8%) of displaced salamanders returned to their original cover object than expected by chance. /// El comportamiento territorial es un componente importante de la biologa de algunas especies de salamandras pletodntidas. Se piensa que este comportamiento funciona para dirimir la competencia tanto dentro como entre especies, y en fin puede determinar cuales especies coexisten en una regin geogrfica. Estudiamos una caracterstica crucial de comportamiento territorial, la tenacidad al sitio, observando a largo plazo una poblacin de salamandras (Plethodon ouachitae) en la primavera de 1993 y 1994. Identificamos 54 cubiertas naturales asociadas con salamandras adultas. Visitamos estas cubiertas 14 veces durante el estudio, observando un total de 152 salamandras individuales. De ste, 34 (22.4%) fueron recapturadas por lo menos una vez. De las 54 salamandras identificadas originalmente, 10 (18.5%) fueron recapturadas debajo de sus cubiertas originales por lo menos una vez. Salamandras recapturadas fueron encontradas debajo de cubiertas significativamente ms grandes que las de salamandras que no fueron recapturadas, y machos fueron encontrados debajo de cubiertas significativamente ms grandes que las de hembras. Anlisis de regresin mostraron relaciones positivas significativas entre el tamao de la cubierta y el nmero total de salamandras individuales observadas, el nmero total de recapturas, y el nmero de individuos recapturados. No se detect una relacin entre el tamao de la cubierta y el tamao de la salamandra. Adems examinamos la capacidad de adultos de P. ouachitae a reubicarse en sus cubiertas originales despus de desplazarlas 5 m del punto de captura. Significativamente ms (23.8%) salamandras desplazadas volvieron a su cubierta original de lo esperado al azar.
10.2307/3672498|Scorpions are potentially ecologically important in arid habitats, but the ability to assess this is limited by the lack of basic population- and community-level data for scorpion assemblages. We describe several such measures gathered over 16 months from a site in western Texas. Eight species occurred at this site, of which 3 (Centruroides vittatus, Vaejovis waueri, and Diplocentrus) composed >98% of all individuals. Centruroides vittatus was numerically dominant in most months. Despite this, species diversity and evenness were high when compared to other scorpion assemblages. Nocturnal activity was strongly dominated by C. vittatus, which accounted for >90% of all individuals. Surface density and biomass of C. vittatus and V. waueri varied significantly among months, being highest in the spring and fall, while density and biomass of Diplocentrus were more constant. We found little evidence that temperature influenced density patterns, but nocturnal activity and species diversity and evenness increased with increasing temperature. Both population-and community-level density and biomass were substantially lower (usually by 1 to 2 orders of magnitude) than in other arid-zone scorpion assemblages. This suggests that the ecological importance of scorpions varies, probably dependent upon habitat type and the ecology of the individual species in the community. /// Posiblemente, alacrnes son organismos ecolgicamente importantes en hbitats ridos, pero la habilidad para determinar el impacto de estos organismos es limitado por la falta de datos bsicos al nivel de la poblacin y comunidad en los alacrnes. Presentamos datos colectados durante 16 meses de un sitio en el oeste de Texas. Ocho especies ocurrieron en este sitio, con 3 de las especies (Centruroides vittatus, Vaejovis waueri, y Diplocentrus sp.) componiendo >98% de todos los individuos. Centruroides vittatus fue el ms comn durante la mayora del ao. Sin embargo, la diversidad de especies y equidad fueron altos comparado a otros grupos de alacrnes. Actividad nocturna fue dominada por C. vittatus, lo cual represent >90% de todos los individuos. La densidad superficial y biomasa de C. vittatus y V. waueri variaron significativamente entre meses, siendo ms altas durante la primavera y el otoo. La densidad y biomasa de Diplocentrus sp. fueron ms constantes. Encontramos poca evidencia de que la temperatura influenciara patrones de densidad, pero la actividad nocturna, la diversidad de especies, y la equidad subieron con la temperatura. Al nivel de la poblacin y la comunidad, la densidad y biomasa fueron substancialmente ms bajas (usualmente por 1-2 rdenes de magnitud) que en otros grupos de alacrnes en regiones ridas. Esto indica que la importancia ecolgica de alacrnes vara, probablemente dependiendo del tipo de hbitat y la ecologa de cada especie en la comunidad.
10.2307/3672499|The riparian vegetation of the lower reach of the Rio Grande was studied at 7 locations using 3 line intercepts at each location. There were no trees at the mouth of the river and the vegetation was similar to that found along the Laguna Madre shore of barrier islands. Mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa) was the dominant tree near the coast and in the western section of the river near Falcon Dam. Sugar hackberry (Celtis laevigata) was the dominant tree species at all other sites except at Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge, where cedar elm (Ulmus crassifolia) and anacua (Ehretia anacua) were the dominant trees. Granjeno (Celtis pallida) was a dominant shrub throughout the riparian corridor. The dominant trees and shrubs appeared to be replacing themselves. Species similarity in the tree, shrub, and ground layers was greater among transects at a given site than between sites. The introduced Guinea grass (Panicum maximum) and buffel grass (Pennisetum ciliare) were the dominant species in the ground cover, displacing native species. /// La vegetacin riparia de la seccin baja del Ro Bravo fue estudiada en siete localidades utilizando tres lneas de intercepcin en cada localidad. No hay rboles en la desembocadura del ro y la vegetacin es semejante a la de la orilla de las islas barrera de la Laguna Madre. Mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa) es el rbol dominante cerca de la costa y en la seccin occidental del ro cerca de la Presa Falcn. El palo blanco (Celtis laevigata) es la especie de rbol dominante en todos los dems sitios excepto en el Refugio Silvestre Nacional de Santa Ana donde el olmo (Ulmus crassifolia) y la anacua (Ehretia anacua) son los rboles dominantes. Granjeno (Celtis pallida) es el arbusto dominante en todo el corredor ripario. Parece que los rboles y arbustos dominantes se estn reemplazando. La semejanza de especies entre rboles, arbustos y cobertura de tierra es ms alta entre transectos en un sitio que entre sitios. Las hierbas exticas, Panicum maximum y Pennisetum ciliare, son las especies dominantes de la superficie terrestre, desplazando a las especies nativas.
10.2307/3672500|This paper presents data on utilizing remote sensing technology for characterizing a riparian zone in southern Texas. Radiometric ground reflectance measurements, color-infrared aerial photography, and computer image processing techniques were conducted for this study. Reflectance measurements were made on 8 dominant vegetation types, soil, and water. Spectral measurements were made in the visible green (0.52-0.60 m), visible red (0.63-0.69 m), and near-infrared (0.76-0.90 m) wavelengths. Reflectance values differed significantly (P = 0.05) among the vegetation, soil, and water parameters at all 3 wavelengths. Differences in reflectance among the vegetation cover types were attributed to variable foliage coloration and vegetative density. A color-infrared photograph of the study area showed that many of the ecological surface types could be readily distinguished. An unsupervised computer classification of the photograph identified 8 ground classes. An accuracy assessment performed on the classification showed an overall accuracy of 88%. /// Se presenta infomacin sobre cmo utilizar la tecnologa de la recepcin remota para caracterizar una zona riparia en el sur de Texas. Medidas radiomtricas de reflectancia del suelo, fotografa area infrarroja a color, y tcnicas de procesamiento digital de imgenes se realizaron para este estudio. Medidas de reflectancia espectral se hicieron en ocho tipos dominantes de vegetacin, suelo y agua. Medidas espectrales se efectuaron en longitudes de onda correspondientes al intervalo visible verde (0.52-0.60 m), visible rojo (0.63-0.69 m), y del infrarrojo cercano (0.76-0.90 m). Los valores de reflectancia variaron significativamente (P = 0.05) entre los parmetros de vegetacin, suelo y de agua en las tres longitudes de onda. Diferencias de reflectancia entre los tipos de cobertura vegetal se atribuyeron a la coloracin variada del follaje y a la densidad de la vegetatin. Fotografa area infrarroja del rea bajo estudio mostr que muchos de los tipos surperficiales ecolgicos pueden ser fcilmente identificados. Una clasificacin no supervisada con computadora identific ocho clases de capas superficiales. Una evaluacin de la clasificacin demostr una precisin total del 88%.
10.2307/3672501|Studies of vegetation patterns on small desert mountains have rarely been conducted. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the influence of aspect and elevation on vegetation of Mt. Summerford, a small desert mountain characteristic of the Basin and Range Province of southwestern United States and northern Mexico. Vegetation was randomly sampled on 4 aspects and 3 elevations (0-80 m, 80-160 m, and 160-240 m) of the mountain. South (S) and west (W) aspects had lower grass cover and higher shrub density than east (E) and north (N) aspects. Grass cover decreased as elevation increased on E and N exposures. In contrast, grass cover increased as elevation increased on S and W exposures. A high density of succulent species was found on lower elevations of the S and W aspects. The most frequent species on the mountain were Bouteloua curtipendula, Bouteloua eriopoda, Muhlenbergia porteri, Aristida ternipes, Aloysia wrightii, Ericameria laricifolia, Gutierrezia sarothrae, Fouquieria splendens, Dasylirion wheeleri, and Opuntia. Composition of these species, as a mosaic unit, was significantly different among the aspect-elevation units. Species richness was higher in S and W than in E and N aspects. Differences in vegetation patterns were attributed to differential water and nutrient availability on aspects and elevations. This study suggests that topographical change is responsible for vegetation patterns in mountains less than 500 m high. /// Existen pocos estudios sobre patrones de vegetacin en pequeas montaas desrticas. El propsito de este estudio fue evaluar la influencia de la exposicin y elevacin en la vegetacin del Monte Summerford, una pequea montaa desrtica caracterstica de la Basin and Range Province del suroeste de los Estados Unidos y norte de Mxico. Se efectuaron muestreos aleatorios de vegetacin en 4 exposiciones y 3 elevaciones (0-80 m, 80-160 m, y 160-240 m) de la montaa. Las exposiciones sur (S) y oeste (O) tuvieron menor cobertura de pastos y mayor densidad de arbustivas que las exposiciones este (E) y norte (N). La cobertura de pastos disminuy al aumentar la elevacin en exposiciones E y N. En contraste, la cobertura de pasto aument con el aumento en elevacin en exposiciones S y O. La densidad de plantas suculentas fue mayor a baja elevacin en exposiciones S y O. Las especies con ms alta frecuencia fueron Bouteloua curtipendula, Bouteloua eriopoda, Muhlenbergia porteri, Aristida ternipes, Aloysia wrightii, Ericameria laricifolia, Gutierrezia sarothrae, Fouquieria splendens, Dasylirion wheeleri, y Opuntia. La composicin de estas especies, como una unidad mosaico, vari significativamente en las diferentes unidades de exposicin-elevacin. La riqueza de especies fue ms alta en las exposiciones S y O que en las exposiciones E y N. Las diferencias en los patrones de vegetacin fueron atribudas a la variacin en la disponibilidad de agua y nutrientes en exposiciones y elevaciones. Este estudio sugiere que la variacin topogrfica es causa de los patrones de vegetacin en montaas de menos de 500 m de altura.
10.2307/3672654|We evaluated habitat use, abundance trends, and potential relationships between biotic and abiotic conditions and characteristics of rodent assemblages in southeastern Arizona. In May 1995 we established 3 sampling webs in the semidesert grassland at the Santa Rita Experimental Range, Pima County, Arizona. Mark-release trapping was conducted for 3 nights monthly through December 1999. Drought conditions occurred in 1995, moderate rainfall fell during 1996 through 1998, and heavy rainfall fell in 1999. The same pattern of rodent abundance was observed on all 3 webs. With the exception of white-throated woodrats (Neotoma albigula), rodents in our study responded numerically to increased rainfall. Additionally, the pattern of changes in abundance was similar for all species and sexes within species on all 3 sampling webs. There were, however, significant differences in the absolute abundance of many species among the webs. Differences among webs in rodent abundance were related to differences in plant associations among the webs. We found substantial temporal and age-related differences in habitat use for several species. The riparian area was strongly related to the occurrence of brush mice (Peromyscus boylii), white-footed mice (P. leucopus), and woodrats. Our results have specific ramifications in relatively fine-scale planning for restoration of desert plant communities. /// Se evaluaron las posibles relaciones existentes entre las condiciones biticas y abiticas, el uso del hbitat, las tendencias en la abundancia, y las caractersticas de las comunidades de roedores en el sureste de Arizona. En mayo de 1995, establecimos 3 redes de muestreo en la pradera semidesrtica del Santa Rita Experimental Range, condado de Pima, Arizona. Se efectu la captura de roedores con marcaje y liberacin tres noches por mes, hasta diciembre de 1999. Condiciones de sequa ocurrieron durante 1995, lluvia moderada cay de 1996-98, y lluvia intensa durante 1999. El patrn de abundancia observado fue el mismo para las 3 redes de muestreo. Con la excepcin de la rata nopalera de cuello blanco (Neotoma albigula), los roedores en nuestro estudio respondieron numricamente al aumento en las lluvias. Adems, el patrn de cambios de abundancia fue similar para todas las especies, y sexos entre especies, en las 3 redes. Sin embargo, hubo diferencias significativas en la abundancia absoluta de varias especies entre las redes, las cuales se atribuyeron a las diferencias en la comunidad de plantas de las redes. Se encontraron diferencias importantes, para varias especies en el uso del hbitat, de acuerdo a la edad y a la temporada. La zona riberea estuvo fuertemente relacionada a la presencia del ratn de arbustos (Peromyscus boylii), ratn de patas blancas (P. leucopus), y la rata nopalera. Nuestros resultados tienen ramificaciones especficas para la planeacin a escala-fina de la restauracin de comunidades de plantas desrticas.
10.2307/3672655|Several morphological characteristics of the kidney were studied to determine the degree of interspecific and intraspecific adaptation that might occur within 3 species of peccary from arid, semi-arid, and moist habitats. Paired kidney samples were collected from collared (Tayassu tajacu), Chacoan (Catagonus wagneri), and white-lipped (T. pecari) peccaries from habitats varying in water availability. Two indexes for renal concentrating ability, the relative medullary thickness and relative medullary area, exhibited higher values for animals from arid and semi-arid habitats than for those from moist habitats. Relative kidney mass also was higher for collared peccaries from dry environments. It was concluded that renal structures are flexible in response to environment variation, and the differences observed were related to the adaptability of renal concentrating structures. /// Se estudiaron algunas caractersticas morfolgicas del rin para determinar el grado de adaptacin interespecfica e intraespecfica que pueden ocurrir en 3 especies de pecar de hbitats ridos, semiridos, y hmedos. Se reunieron muestras pares de rin de los pecares de collar (Tayassu tajacu), del Chaco (Catagonus wagneri), y de quijada blanca (T. pecari) de hbitats que variaban en la disponibidad de agua. Dos ndices que miden la habilidad renal para concentrar, el grosor relativo medular y el rea medular relativa, mostraron cifras ms altas en los animales de hbitats ridos y semiridos que los de hbitats hmedos. Tambin la masa renal relativa fue ms alta para los pecares de collar en ambientes secos. Se concluy que las estructuras renales son flexibles con respecto a las variaciones del medio ambiente, y que las diferencias observadas se relacionaron con la adaptabilidad de las estructuras renales que sirven para la concentracin.
10.2307/3672656|Wildlife managers in the Gulf Coast Chenier Plain of Louisiana and Texas frequently burn marshes during winter to improve habitat for wintering waterfowl and furbearers. Such fires dramatically alter vegetation structure and cover, although such changes are generally temporary. However, if vegetation cover does not recover sufficiently by the start of the subsequent breeding season, nests of marsh birds could be exposed to increased predation rates. We examined effects of burning on 2 measures of vegetation structure and on 2 types of artificial bird nests during breeding seasons (May and June) before and after experimental winter burns (December and January). We found that vegetation structure did not differ between burned and non-burned marshes at 5 months post-burn. Similarly, depredation rates of artificial sparrow and duck nests did not differ between burned and non-burned marshes during the post-burn breeding season. We recommend that managers complete burning programs by the end of January so that sufficient nesting cover develops before the start of the breeding season. /// Administradores de vida silvestre en la costa del Golfo de Mxico Chernier Plain en Louisiana y Texas frecuentemente queman pantanos durante el invierno para mejorar el hbitat para aves acuticas invernales y animals con piel. Tales fuegos alteran dramticamente la estructura vegetal y la cubierta, a pesar de que los cambios son generalmente temporarios. Sin embargo, si la cubierta vegetal no se recobra suficientemente para el inicio de la siguiente temporada de apareamiento, los nidos de las aves de pantanos pueden ser expuestos a mayors tasas de depredacin. Examinamos los efectos de las quemas en 2 medidas estructurales de vegetacin y en 2 tipos de nidos artificiales durante la temporada de apareamiento (mayo y junio) antes y despus de quemas invernales experimentales (diciembre y enero). Encontramos que la estructura vegetal no difiri entre pantanos quemados y sin quemar 5 mesas despus de la quema. Similarmente, las tasas de depredacin en nidos artificiales de gorriones y patos no difirieron entre pantanos quemados y sin quemar durante la temporada de apareamiento despus de la quema. Recomendamos que los administradores terminen los programas de quema hacia fines de enero para que se desarrolle suficiente cubierta para nidos antes del inicio de la temporada de apareamiento.
10.2307/3672657|Stephens' kangaroo rat (Dipodomys stephensi) was listed as an endangered species in 1988 due to significant loss of its habitat through agricultural and urban development. We examined allozyme variation in 245 individuals from 10 locations in Riverside and San Diego counties, California, to assess the genetic consequences of habitat fragmentation. Populations were polymorphic at 0.050 to 0.175 of the loci surveyed (mean P = 0.125), and mean heterozygosities varied from 0.005 to 0.032 (mean H = 0.019). Despite low levels of genetic diversity within populations, significant F<sub>ST</sub> values were observed at 5 of 10 polymorphic loci (mean F<sub>ST</sub> = 0.266), indicating population differentiation. Genetic distances for individual loci and across all loci were not significantly correlated with geographic distances. The patterns of genetic diversity observed suggest that habitat fragmentation has influenced population genetic structure in this species. Genetic drift and restricted gene flow stemming from the fragmentation of once contiguous populations into isolated populations are suggested as contributing factors. Demographic data suggest that periodic bottlenecks in population size may also contribute to these patterns. /// La rata canguro de Stephen (Dipodomys stephensi) fue incluida en la lista de especies en peligro de extincin en 1988, debido a la prdida significativa de su hbitat a causa del desarrollo agrcola y urbano. Examinamos la variacin alozmica en 245 individuos provenientes de 10 localidades en los condados de Riverside y San Diego, California, para evaluar las consecuencias genticas de la fragmentacin del hbitat. Las poblaciones resultaron ser polimrficas de 0.050 a 0.175 de los loci examinados (promedio de P = 0.125), y el promedio de la heterozigosidad vari de 0.005 a 0.032 (promedio de H = 0.019). A pesar de los bajos niveles de diversidad gentica dentro de las poblaciones, los valores de F<sub>ST</sub> observados fueron significativos en 5 de 10 loci polimrficos (promedio de F<sub>ST</sub> = 0.266), indicando la diferenciacin poblacional. Las distancias genticas por loci individuales y a travs de todos los loci no resultaron correlacionadas significativamente con las distancias geogrficas. Los patrones de diversidad gentica observados sugieren que la fragmentacin del hbitat ha influido en la estructura gentica poblacional en esta especie. La deriva gentica y la restriccin del flujo de genes, provocados por la fragmentacin de poblaciones originalmente contiguas a poblaciones aisladas, se sugieren como factores contribuyentes a estos patrones. Los datos demogrficos sugieren que "cuellos de botella" peridicos en el tamao de la poblacin pueden tambin haber contribuido a estos patrones.
10.2307/3672658|The Chinese tallow tree (Sapium sebiferum) (Euphorbiaceae) was introduced into coastal Texas in the late 1800s and forms monotypic woodlands once naturalized. However, few studies have examined avian use of tallow seeds during fall migration in coastal Texas. We documented use of Chinese tallow seeds and compared foraging frequency on Chinese tallow seeds among permanent, summer, and winter residents and migrants. We also tested the hypothesis that Chinese tallow seed germination was enhanced by foraging activities of yellow-rumped warblers (Dendroica coronata), the most common species observed foraging on tallow seeds. During fall migration 1995 and 1996, 24 species were observed foraging on Chinese tallow seeds. Yellow-rumped warblers and Baltimore orioles (Icterus galbula) accounted for 72% of all tallow seed feeding observations. Winter residents foraged upon Chinese tallow seeds more frequently (P<0.001) than summer residents, permanent residents, and migrants. Chinese tallow seed germination rates did not vary (P = 1.0) between seeds collected after yellow-rumped warbler feeding activities (2.5%) and those collected directly from seed bearing trees (2.5%). The high levels of fatty acids and oils in Chinese tallow seeds may be more important for winter residents than migrants or other groups of birds. Although germination is not enhanced by yellow-rumped warbler feeding activities, they may serve as dispersal agents, potentially enhancing future tallow expansion. /// El rbol Chino de sebo (Sapium sebiferum) (Euphorbiaceae) fue introducido en la costa de Texas a fines del siglo XIX, y estableci bosques monotpicos una vez que se aclimat. Sin embargo, pocos estudios han examinado el uso de sus semillas por aves durante su migracin otoal por las costas de Texas. Documentamos el uso de las semillas del rbol Chino de sebo y comparamos la frecuencia de consumo de estas semillas entre residentes permanentes, de verano, de invierno, y emigrantes. Adicionalmente, probamos la hiptesis de que la frecuencia de germinacin de las semillas del rbol Chino de sebo aument por el consumo del chipe rabadilla-amarilla (Dendroica coronata), la especie ms comnmente observada consumiendo sus semillas. Durante las migraciones de otoo de 1995 y 1996, 24 especies fueron observadas consumiendo semillas del rbol Chino de sebo. El chipe rabadilla-amarilla y el bolsero de Baltimore (Icterus galbula) representaron 72% del total de observaciones de consumo de semillas del rbol Chino de sebo. Los residentes de invierno fueron observados consumiendo sus semillas ms frecuentemente (P<0.001) que los residentes de verano, residentes permanentes y emigrantes. La tasa de germinacin de las semillas del rbol Chino de sebo no vari (P = 1.0) entre semillas colectadas luego de ser consumidas por el chipe rabadilla-amarilla (2.5%) y semillas colectadas directamente del rbol (2.5%). Los altos niveles de cidos grasos y aceites en las semillas del rbol Chino de sebo pueden ser ms importantes para los residentes de invierno que para los emigrantes y otros grupos de aves. Aunque el consumo por el chipe rabadilla-amarilla no afecta la tasa de germinacin, estos podran servir como agentes de dispersin, quizs incrementando la expansin del rbol Chino de sebo.
10.2307/3672659|We examined short-term responses of grasses, shrubs, and rodents on experimental plots to determine how manipulations of livestock grazing and prescribed fire affect individual species and community structure in a shrub-invaded arid grassland. Two grasses and Gutierrezia sarothrae were found in lower abundance on burned plots in the growing season after plots burned; all Prosopis glandulosa survived the fire. Total rodent captures and the number of Dipodomys spectabilis did not differ among treatments. No significant interaction between burning and grazing was observed. Fire seems to have few short-term negative effects on species in this system. /// Examinamos las respuestas a corto plazo de cada especie y de la comunidad de hierbas, arbustos y roedores en parcelas experimentales en un prado rido invadido por matorrales, en las cuales se manipularon el pastoreo por ganado y las quemas prescritas. Dos especies de hierbas y Gutierrezia sarothrae se encontraron en menor abundancia en las parcelas quemadas la temporada siguiente al fuego. Todos los individuos de Prosopis glandulosa sobrevivieron el fuego. El total de capturas de roedores y el nmero de Dipodomys spectabilis no difirieron entre tratamientos. Tampoco se detect una interaccin significativa entre la quema y el pastoreo. Tal parece que la quema tiene pocos efectos negativos a corto plazo en las especies de este sistema.
10.2307/3672660|Macartney rose (Rosa bracteata) is an evergreen shrub that often creates a range management problem in southeastern Texas. A study was conducted to determine the potential of using remote sensing technology to distinguish Macartney rose on the Texas Coastal Prairie. Field reflectance measurements showed that Macartney rose had higher near-infrared reflectance than associated plant species and mixtures of species in February and March. Macartney rose had a bright red image tonal response on color-infrared aerial photographs obtained in late winter. Computer analysis of a color-infrared photographic transparency showed that Macartney rose populations could be quantified. An accuracy assessment performed on the classified image showed that both the user's accuracy and producer's accuracy for Macartney rose were 100%. /// La rosa de Macartney (Rosa bracteata) es un arbusto perene que crea a menudo un problema de manejo de campo en Texas suroriental. Un estudio fue conducido para determinar el potencial de usar tecnologa de deteccin remota para distinguir la rosa de Macartney en la Pradera Costera de Texas. Las medidas de la reflexin de campo mostraron que la rosa de Macartney tuvo una reflexin ms alta cercana a la infraroja que las especies de plantas asociadas y mezclas de especies en febrero y marzo. La rosa de Macartney tuvo una respuesta de tono rojo brillante en la imagen de las fotografas areas color-infrarrojas obtenidas a fines del invierno. El anlisis computarizado de una transparencia fotogrfica color-infrarroja mostr que las poblaciones de la rosa de Macartney podran ser cuantificadas. Una evaluacin de la exactitud realizada en la imagen clasificada mostr que la exactitud del usario y la exactitud del productor para la rosa de Macartney eran 100%.
10.2307/3672661|Aboveground biomass of 4 populations of Yucca schidigera in Baja California, Mxico, and its relationship with environmental conditions, associated vegetation, density, and colony structure (size and diameter of stem) are described. Significant differences in biomass were found among populations: total weights of stems ranged from 5.0 to 21.5 metric tons per hectare, densities ranged from 45 to 219 colonies per hectare, and colony size from 4.6 to 9.6 stems. Regression equations were developed to predict aboveground biomass from plant measurements. Our results might support the development of management plans for the intensive use of wild populations of Y. schidigera in Baja California considering rates of harvest according to their density, structure, and biomass productivity. /// Se describe la biomasa area de 4 poblaciones de Yucca schidigera en Baja California, Mxico, y su relacin con las condiciones ambientales, vegetacin asociada, y la densidad y estructura de la colonia (altura y dimetro de tallo). Diferencias significativas en biomasa fueron encontradas entre las poblaciones: el peso total de tallos vari de 5.0 a 21.0 ton/ha, las densidades de 45 a 219 colonias/ha y el tamao de las colonias de 4.6 a 9.4 tallos/colonia. A partir de mediciones en plantas se calcularon ecuaciones de regresin para predecir la biomasa area. Nuestros resultados pueden apoyar el desarrollo de planes de manejo para el uso intensivo de poblaciones silvestres de Y. schidigera en Baja California considerando que las tasas de aprovechamiento deben definirse de acuerdo a la densidad, estructura y productividad de biomasa.
10.2307/3672662|When bedrock is at or near the surface in forested regions, moisture stress limits tree establishment, and herbaceous plants dominate the shallow soil areas (glades). Despite floristic and environmental similarities (full sunlight, winter moisture, summer drought, importance of soil depth, substrate-controlled soil chemistry), rock outcrop communities in the Ozarks region and the southeastern United States are vegetationally different. In the Southeast, level terrain and level rock surfaces with consequent moderate erosion allow a linear change in depth of soil outward from bare rock, producing several vegetational zones on shallow soil maintained by moisture stress. Perennial grasses are largely confined to edges of openings adjacent to surrounding forest. The distinct vegetational zones of shallow soil are dominated by annual dicots, annual grasses, and perennial dicots, including some endemic species; these are called "glades" in the Southeast. In the Ozarks, glade areas are typically strongly sloping, so that soil erosion frequently exceeds weathering of bedrock. Soil removal rates vary greatly over short distances, producing a mosaic of soil depths and, thus, a mosaic of plant species with different depth requirements. Plants with different soil depth requirements are intermixed or distributed in small patches, rather than in distinct zones, so fire-supporting perennial grasses are interspersed among shallow soil herbs and patches of deeper soil that support cedar trees (Juniperus). Perennial grasses support periodic fires that kill most woody plants and promote continued grass abundance. Because shallow soil plants are interspersed among deeper soil plants in the glade mosaic, studies of vegetation of "glades" (the total vegetational mosaic) in the Ozarks find perennial grasses and cedars dominant, with shallow-soil plants, including endemics, as minor associates. /// Donde el lecho de roca se asoma a la superficie de la tierra o est prximo a ella en reas forestales, la falta de humedad elimina los rboles, y las plantas herbceas dominan las reas de tierra poco profunda (los claros, o en ingls, glades). A pesar de semejanzas de flora y de entornos (iluminacin completa, humedad invernal, sequas del verano, importancia de la profundidad del suelo, qumica del suelo controlada por el lecho de roca), las comunidades de roca expuesta en la regin de los Ozarks y en el sudeste de los Estados Unidos son distintas en su vegetacin. En el sudeste de los Estados Unidos, el terreno plano y la superficie plana de la roca en combinacin con un ndice de erosin moderada fomentan un cambio lineal en la profundidad de suelo con la distancia de la roca descubierta. Este cambio lineal produce varias zonas de vegetacin en suelo poco profundo mantenidas por la falta de humedad. Los pastos perennes en gran parte se confinan a las orillas de los claros adyacentes al bosque circundante. Las distintas zonas vegetales de suelo poco profundo se dominan por los dicotiledneos y pastos anuales y los dicotiledneos perennes, incluyendo algunas especies endmicas; estas zonas son las comunidades de los "claros" del sudeste de los Estados Unidos. En los Ozarks, los claros normalmente ostentan fuertes vertientes de manera que la erosin generalmente excede la formacin de suelo. Las tasas de la erosin de tierra varan mucho dentro de distancias cortas de manera que producen un mosaico de profundidades del suelo y, por consiguiente, un mosaico de especies de plantas con diversos requisitos de profundidad de suelo. Las plantas con diferentes requisitos de profundidad de suelo estn mezcladas o distribuidas en parcelas pequeas, en vez de zonas distintas. Los pastos perennes (que pueden soportar los incendios) se entremezclan con las hierbas de suelo poco profundo y con pequeos terrenos ms profundos que sostienen los cedros (Juniperus). Los pastos perennes soportan fuegos peridicos que matan las plantas leosas y promueven la continuacin de la abundancia de los pastos. Porque las plantas del suelo poco profundo se entremezclan con plantas del suelo ms profundo en el mosaico de vegetacin en los Ozarks, los estudios de los "claros" (el mosaico entero de vegetacin) en esta regin encuentran los pastos perennes y los cedros como dominantes. Las plantas del suelo poco profundo, las endmicas incluidas, son componentes menos importantes.
3672732|Flourensia cernua seeds have far lower germination than the average recorded for arid-land shrubs of the family Asteraceae. In this study, we investigated whether low germination was due to dormancy effects of embryonic immaturity, the absence of hormones (i.e., gibberelic acid), moisture conditions provided by the germination substrate, or specific conditions of light and temperature. Percent germination increased for seeds between 5 and 8 months and decreased for older seed ages. We observed no increase in germination when gibberelic acid was applied to seeds. Germination was higher on an agar substrate (33.47%) than on a substrate of filter paper with cotton (7.73%), suggesting the advantage of a constant moisture condition. The highest germination percentages were obtained with white and red light, indicating that germination might be favored under conditions of exposed seed or conditions of minimal canopy and litter cover. The highest germination followed a combined pretreatment of heat and cold. These pretreatments probably reproduced thermic conditions encountered by F. cernua seeds under field conditions. Specifically, in nature, these seeds are dispersed during cold, winter months, but germinate later, after passing through the heat of the summer. Percent germination in our experiments rarely surpassed 30%, but is still considered low compared to those reported for other desert species of Asteraceae. We suggest that a dormancy mechanism, other than those considered in this study, accounted for low germination rates in F. cernua; alternatively, reduced germination might have been caused by endogamic depression. /// Las semillas de Flourensia cernua tienen un porcentaje de germinacin notoriamente inferior al promedio registrado para arbustos semiridos de la familia Asteraceae. En este trabajo investigamos si la baja germinacin se debe a latencia causada por inmadurez del embrin, por ausencia de hormonas (cido giberlico), por las condiciones de humedad del sustrato, o por requerimientos especficos de luz y temperatura. La germinacin aumenta entre los 5 y 8 meses de edad y, pasando este perodo, disminuya nuevamente. No observamos un aumento de la germinacin con la aplicacin de cido giberlico. Hubo mayor germinacin cuando se utiliz agar como sustrato (33.47%) a diferencia de cuando se us papel filtro con algodn (7.73%), lo que sugiere la ventaja de un aporte constante de humedad. Los mejores porcentajes de germinacin obtenidos con luz blanca y roja sugieren que la germinacin se ver favorecida en las condiciones lumnicas de suelo desnudo y de suelo con baja cobertura de dosel u hojarasca. Las semillas tuvieron mayor porcentaje de germinacin con la combinacin de pretratamientos de fro y calor, lo cual reproduce las condiciones trmicas que enfrentan las semillas en el campo ya que cuando son dispersadas an existen temperaturas invernales, pero germinan despus de las altas temperaturas de verano. Los porcentajes de germinacin obtenidos en los distintos experimentos, que raramente sobrepasaron el 30%, an pueden considerarse bajos comparados con lo reportado para otras especies de Asteraceae de desiertos. Sugerimos que algn tipo de latencia, diferente a los considerados en el presente trabajo, provoca la baja germinacin de F. cernua, o que su baja germinacin sea debida a depresin por endogamia.
3672733|We studied the habitat characteristics of 7 species of montane land snails in the genus Ashmunella in southern New Mexico from July 1999 to September 2000. We compared 9 numeric variables and 4 categorical variables by species. Geographic differences in microhabitat variables exist among these species; however, these differences tend to be obscured when comparing species, because some species are ecological generalists that occupy a wide range of habitat types. Although this study determined that different populations occupy ecologically distinct habitats in a broad range of environmental conditions, it remains unclear whether these factors influence the morphological characters on which past workers assigned species status. Management plans for the conservation of these species should take careful note of demonstrated habitat differences among and within the species. /// Las caractersticas del hbitat de 7 especies de caracoles terrestres de montaa del gnero Ashmunella se estudiaron en el sur de Nuevo Mxico de julio 1999 a septiembre del 2000. Nueve variables numricas y cuatro variables categricas se compararon por especie. Entre estas especies existe una clara variacin geogrfica en variables de microhbitat. Sin embargo, estas diferencias tienden a no ser tan claras al comparar especies debido a que algunas especies son generalistas ecolgicas que ocupan un amplio nmero de tipos de hbitat. Este estudio determin que diferentes poblaciones ocupan hbitats ecolgicamente distintos en un amplio margen de condiciones ecolgicas, sin embargo no est claro si estos factores influyen en las caractersticas morfolgicas que previamente se han usado para definir especies. Los programas de manejo para la conservacin de estas especies debern tomar en cuenta las comprobadas diferencias de hbitat entre especies y dentro de ellas.
3672734|We sampled the aquatic benthos at 6 remote sites on the Colorado and Green rivers through Canyonlands National Park, Utah, USA. This study provides the first published description of benthic standing mass, invertebrate community composition, and primary carbon source for this portion of the Colorado River system. High suspended sediment concentrations prohibited growth of primary producers. The primary carbon source for benthic invertebrates was terrestrial organic matter. The invertebrate community was composed of 49 taxa, mostly mayflies, caddisflies, and diptera, which were dominated by filterer/collector species. A smaller portion of the community was made up of predatory stoneflies and odonates. Standing mass of invertebrates on cobble substrates within a given site was stable over the multiyear sample period (1993 through 1996) and was comparable with other southwestern streams (overall mean = 0.41 g/m<sup>2</sup> ash-free dry mass  0.01 SE). Invertebrate standing mass at each site was controlled by the availability of primary carbon. Primary carbon availability was controlled by supply to the site and retention within the site. Both aspects might be influenced by anthropogenic alteration of the river basin and discharge patterns upstream of the study site. /// Muestreamos bentos acuticos en 6 sitios remotos en los Ros Colorado y Green en el Parque Nacional de Canyonlands, Utah, USA. Este estudio presenta la primera descripcin de biomasa actual de bentos, composicin de la comunidad de invertebrados, y fuentes de carbn primario para esta parte del sistema del Ri Colorado. La concentracin alta de sedimentos suspendidos impidi el crecimiento de productores primaries. La fuente de carbn para los invertebrados bentnicos fue materia orgnica terrestre. La comunidad invertebrada consisti de 49 taxa, de los cuales la mayora fueron de ephemerptera, tricptera, y dptera, que fueron dominados por filtradores/colectores. Una porcin ms pequea de la comunidad estuvo compuesta de los depredadores plecptera y odonata. La biomasa actual de invertebrados en sustrato de piedras en un sitio fue estable entre la poca de muestro multi-anual (1993-1996) y fue comparable a otros riachuelos en el suroeste de USA (promedio general = 0.41 g/m<sup>2</sup> masa seca sin cenizas  0.01 EE). La biomasa de invertebrados en cada sitio estuvo controlada por la disponibilidad de carbn primario. El carbn primario disponible estuvo controlado por el abastecimiento al sitio y retencin en el sitio. Los dos aspectos pueden ser influidos por cambios antropognicos en la cuenca y los patrones de descargas ro arriba del sitio de estudio.
3672735|Flash floods are a defining feature of desert streams, but flow records are not always available to characterize long-term flood dynamics. In this study, rainfall data spanning 100 years were used as a proxy to quantify long-term flood regimes for southeastern Arizona (USA) streams. The frequency and seasonal timing of severe floods (>50% substrate movement) were highly variable at short temporal scales (days to several years), but clear patterns emerged in the long-term (several years to a century). To explore the ecological effects of flood timing, populations of the caddisfly Phylloicus aeneus (Calamoceratidae) were monitored in 2 streams over 3 years. The timing of individual floods relative to the long-term average strongly affected P. aeneus populations: early and timely floods had little effect on population size in the next year, but late floods significantly reduced population size in the next year. Thus, flood timing might play a role in regulating populations of desert stream organisms. /// Inundaciones repentinas son una caracterstica distintiva de los arroyos de desierto, pero los datos hidrolgicos no estn siempre disponibles para caracterizar la dinmica de las inundaciones a largo plazo. En este estudio, datos de precipitacin desde cien aos atrs fueron utilizados como aproximacin para cuantificar regmenes de inundacin a largo plazo para arroyos del sudeste de Arizona, USA. La frecuencia y ocurrencia estacional de inundaciones severas (>50% movimiento de sustrato) fueron altamente variables a corto plazo (de das a varios aos), pero modelos claros emergieron a largo plazo (varios aos a un siglo). Para explorar los efectos ecolgicos del patrn temporal de las inundaciones, las poblaciones de la tricptera Phylloicus aeneus (Calamoceratidae) fueron monitoreadas en 2 arroyos durante 3 aos. La ocurrencia temporal de inundaciones individuales en relacin al promedio a largo plazo afect fuertemente las poblaciones de P. aeneus: las inundaciones tempranas y oportunas tuvieron poco efecto en el tamao poblacional del ao siguiente, pero las inundaciones tardas redujeron significativamente el tamao poblacional del ao siguiente. De este modo, el patrn temporal de las inundaciones puede regular las poblaciones de organismos de arroyos de desierto.
3672736|We conducted laboratory tests to evaluate the effects of an abrupt 10C decrease in water temperature on ability of age-0 flannelmouth suckers (Catostomus latipinnis) to escape predation by rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss). Juvenile flannelmouth suckers (58 mm mean total length) were maintained at 20C and introduced individually, without acclimation, into tanks containing a single adult rainbow trout (246 mm mean total length) at 10 or 20C. Rainbow trout attacked suckers more often at 20C, but were more likely to capture them at 10C. Age-0 flannelmouth suckers experience an abrupt temperature decrease when they exit warm tributaries and enter cold hypolimnetic water released from Glen Canyon Dam on the Colorado River. This temperature change might increase susceptibility of young flannelmouth suckers to predation by rainbow trout, which are abundant in the Colorado River in Glen, Marble, and Grand canyons. /// Realizamos experimentos en el laboratorio para evaluar los efectos de la baja brusca de 10C en la temperatura del agua con relacin a la habilidad de los alevines (edad-0) del pez gato Catostomus latipinnis para escapar de la depredacin por la trucha arcoiris (Oncorhynchus mykiss). Alevines (un promedio de 58 mm LT) se mantuvieron a 20C y fueron introducidos individualmente, sin aclimatizacin en tanques que contenan una trucha arcoiris (un promedio de 246 mm LT) a 20 o 10C. Los ataques de la trucha fueron ms frecuentes a 20C, pero fueron menos efectivos capturando a su presa a 10C. Peces recin eclosionados (edad-0) sufren una baja de temperatura brusca cuando salen de los tributarios clidos y entran en el agua hipolimntica que fluye de la presa del Caon Glen en el Ro Colorado. Este cambio de temperatura podra incrementar la suceptibilidad a la depredacin de los alevines por la trucha arcoiris, que es abundante en los caones de Glen, Marble, y Grande del Ro Colorado.
3672737|We collected data on diet and population ecology of painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) at 2 high-elevation sites in southwestern Colorado during 1996 and 2000. Painted turtles from both sites fit previously reported patterns of delayed maturity and increased body size for C. picta at more northerly latitudes. Minimum body size at sexual maturity was similar at both sites for males (93 to 95 mm plastron length) and females (165 to 177 mm plastron length). Males appeared to reach sexual maturity at 2 to 3 years of age, whereas the onset of sexual maturity in females was delayed until 7 to 8 years of age. Average adult female body size (183 mm) exceeded any previously reported values for this latitude and might reflect an adaptive response to cooler climates and shorter growing seasons. Our analysis of dietary data indicated that painted turtles from these sites did not exhibit the same degree of carnivory (53.8% and 71.7% animal material) compared to more northerly populations of C. picta. /// Coleccionamos datos de la dieta y de la ecologa poblacional de las tortugas pintadas (Chrysemys picta) en dos sitios de alta elevacin del suroeste de Colorado durante 1996 y 2000. Las tortugas pintadas de los dos sitios correspondieron con los patrones previamente registrados de retraso de madurez y del tamao corporal mayor de C. picta de las latitudes ms al norte. El tamao corporal mnimo en la madurez sexual fue similar en los dos sitios para los machos, (93-95 mm de longitud del plastrn) y para las hembras, (165-177 mm de la longitud del plastrn). Pareci que los machos llegaron a la madurez sexual entre 2 a 3 aos de edad, mientras que la madurez sexual de las hembras fue retrasada hasta los 7 u 8 aos. El promedio del tamao corporal de las hembras adultas (183 mm) sobrepas la informacin previamente registrada para esta latitud. Esto puede indicar una respuesta adaptacional a climas ms frescos y a temporadas de crecimiento ms cortas. Nuestro anlisis de datos dietticos indicaron que las tortugas pintadas de estos sitios no exhibieron el mismo grado de consumo carnvoro (53.8% y 71.7% materia animal) con respecto a poblaciones ms al norte de C. picta.
3672738|The black toad, Bufo exsul, has one of the most restricted ranges of all anuran amphibians. Its habitat is located almost entirely on land owned by Deep Springs College within Deep Springs Valley, Inyo County, California. Although abundant within its habitat, it is listed as threatened by the California Department of Fish and Game, primarily because of the small size of its range. Many aspects of its natural history remain unknown, making scientifically based conservation difficult. Potential threats to the black toad population might include the unquantified effects of cattle grazing, well-intentioned but non-scientifically based conservation efforts, changes in water availability, and other factors that have been implicated in the decline of amphibians worldwide. A census performed in part of the range of the toad in 1978 estimated a population size of 7,897 to 9,744 toads. We censused this population in 1999 and estimated 8,419 toads, with a 95% confidence interval of 5,624 to 16,740. The current population size is consistent with previous studies; however, continued monitoring is required to detect future changes. We summarize observations on changes in the sex ratios, average body size, and habitat conditions, and we recommend future research that might effectively guide conservation efforts. /// El sapo negro, Bufo exsul, tiene una de las distribuciones ms restringidas entre todos los anfibios anuros. Su hbitat se ubica casi exclusivamente en tierra de Deep Springs College (DSC) del Deep Springs Valley, condado de Inyo, California. Aunque es abundante dentro de su hbitat, es considerado como amenazado por el California Department of Fish and Game (CDFG), principalmente debido a su distribucin restringida. Muchos aspectos de su historia natural son desconocidos, haciendo su conservacin con base cientfica difcil. Posibles amenazas a las poblaciones del sapo negro pueden incluir los efectos no cuantificados del pastoreo del ganado, esfuerzos de conservacin bien intencionados pero no cientficamente comprobados, cambios en la disponibilidad de agua, y otros factores que han sido implicados en la declinacin de anfibios globalmente. Un censo realizado en parte del rea de distribucin del sapo negro en 1978 estim el tamao de la poblacin entre 7,897 y 9,744 individuos. Censamos esta poblacin en 1999 y estimamos 8,419 individuos, con un intervalo de confianza de 95% de 5,624 y 16,740. El tamao actual de la poblacin es consistente con estudios previos; sin embargo, se requieren monitoreos continuos a fin de detectar cualquier cambio futuro. Incluimos observaciones de cambios en la proporcin sexual, tamao promedio del cuerpo, y condiciones del hbitat, y recomendamos investigaciones futuras que puedan orientar efectivamente los esfuerzos de conservacin.
3672739|We used 4 analyses to examine latitudinal patterns in geographical range sizes of New World woodpeckers and to test for the occurrence of Rapoport's rule, which predicts an increase in size of geographical ranges of species with increasing latitude. Although details of results varied among analyses, general patterns were the same. Smallest average range sizes occurred near 20N, increasing in average size at more northerly (25N to 60N) and southerly (15N to 0) latitudes. Trends were less obvious within the southern hemisphere, but generally, species had larger average range sizes between 0 and 30S than at higher latitudes. Therefore, although there is a positive latitudinal gradient for a portion of the northern hemisphere, data in general do not support Rapoport's rule. /// Usamos 4 anlisis para examinar los patrones latitudinales del tamao de las distribuciones geogrficas de pjaros carpinteros del Nuevo Mundo para probar la regla de Rapoport, que predice el incremento del tamao de las distribuciones geogrficas de especies con un incremento de latitud. Aunque los detalles de los resultados variaron entre los analisis, los patrones generales fueron iguales. Los tamaos promedio ms pequeos de distribucin se encontraron cerca a 20N, aumentando el tamao promedio hacia latitudes ms al norte (25N a 60N) y al sur (15N a 0). Las tendencies fueron menos obvias en el hemisferio sur, pero en general, las especies tuvieron tamaos promedios de distribucin ms grandes entre 0 y 30S que en latitudes ms altas. Aunque existe un incremento de tamao asociado positivamente a la latitud para una porcin del hemisferio norte, en general los datos no apoyan la regla de Rapoport.
3672740|Wing, bill, and mass measurements of eastern (Otus asio) and western (O. kennicottii) screech-owls identify them, their subspecies, and sexes. The eastern screech-owl is the more massive, shorter winged, and longer billed. Females of both species are larger than males. Subspecies follow Marshall (1967), except that O. a. naevius and O. k. macfarlanei are reinstated, and O. k. cardonensis is synonymized with O. k. xantusi. Body size is clinal from large in the north to small in the south in both species. Increasing sexual dimorphism in bill length correlated with decline in mass might reflect increased subdivision of the food niche related to increased competition in more dense populations and among more coexisting insectivorous owls southward. Eastern and western screech-owls coexist in southeastern Colorado, west-central and Trans-Pecos Texas, and northern Chihuahua and Coahuila, where their bill-length differences are 2.3 times greater than among allopatric populations. Interspecific competition is suggested by such character displacement, habitat segregation, and vocal mimicry. The 2 species seem to have mostly separate evolutionary histories, although occasional hybridization indicates continuing speciation. /// Las especies, subespecies y sexos de los tecolotes orientales (Otus asio) y occidentales (O. kennicottii) se identifican por las alas, pico y medidas de masa. El tecolote oriental es ms masivo, de ala ms corta y pico ms largo. Las hembras de ambas especies son ms grandes que los machos. Las subespecies siguen la descripcin de Marshall (1967) excepto que O. a. naevius y O. k. macfarlanei son reinstaladas y O. k. cardonensis es sinnimo con O. k. xantusi. El tamao del cuerpo vara de grande al norte a pequeo al sur en ambas especies. El aumento en dimorfismo sexual en la longitud del pico correlacionado con el decremento en masa puede reflejar la aumentada subdivisin del nicho alimenticio debido al incremento de la competencia en poblaciones ms densas y entre ms tecolotes insectvoros coexistentes en el sur. Los tecolotes orientales y occidentales coexisten en el sureste de Colorado, occidente medio y Trans-Pecos en Texas, y el norte de Chihuahua y Coahuila, donde las diferencias en la longitud del pico son de 2.3 veces ms grandes que entre poblaciones aloptricas. La competencia interespecfica es sugerida por dichos despalazmientos de caracteres, segregacin de hbitat y mimetismo vocal. Las 2 especies parecen haber tenido principalmente historias evolutivas separadas, aunque la hibridacin ocasional indica la especiacin continua.
3672741|We used remote cinematography to evaluate the interactions between feral honey bees (Apis mellifera) and desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) at an artificial water source (guzzler) in Anza-Borrego Desert State Park in southern California from July through September 1995. Honey bees, determined by molecular analysis to be non-Africanized (i.e., not A. m. scutellata), were present at the guzzler collecting water from dawn to dusk whenever bighorn sheep were videotaped. Bighorn sheep exhibited behavioral responses (violent head shaking, rapid withdrawal from the water source, and temporary refusal to drink) to honey bees during 62% (66 of 107) of their visits to the guzzler. Bighorn sheep spent significantly (P < 0.001) more time at the guzzler when their visits were interrupted by honey bees than when they were not interrupted. We concluded that honey bees altered the behavior of bighorn sheep and that honey bees and bighorn sheep were competing for water resources at the guzzler. /// Usamos cinematografa remota para evaluar las interacciones entre las abejas silvestres (Apis mellifera) y los borregos (Ovis canadensis) en una fuente de agua artificial (abrevadero) en Anza Borrego Desert State Park en el sur de California de julio a septiembre de 1995. Las abejas, determinado por medio de anlisis molecular que no eran africanizadas, (o sea, no A. m. scutellata), estuvieron presentes en el abrevadero tomando agua desde el amanecer hasta el anochecer mientras los borregos eran filmados. Los borregos respondieron con diferentes comportamientos (sacudida violenta de la cabeza, rpido retiro de la fuente de agua, y negacin temporaria para beber) a las abejas durante 62% (66/107) de sus visitas al abrevadero. Los borregos pasaron significativamente (P < 0.001) ms tiempo en el abrevadero cuando sus visitas fueron interrumpidas por las abejas que cuando no fueron interrumpidas. Concluimos que las abejas alteraron el comportamiento de los borregos, y que las abejas y los borregos estuvieron compitiendo por agua en el abrevadero.
3672742|While much is known about the behavioral ecology of some species of pupfish (Cyprinodon), virtually nothing is known about the reproductive and territorial behavior of the Comanche Springs pupfish (C. elegans). Using SCUBA and underwater videography, observations were made of the reproductive and territorial behavior of C. elegans in the source pool of San Solomon Spring, Balmorhea State Park, Texas. We constructed time budgets of territorial males and manipulated territorial landmarks. Cyprinodon elegans exhibited courtship and agonistic behaviors, including territorial disputes similar to other Cyprinodon species. Additionally, C. elegans used visual cues as a means for identifying territory, as do other species of Cyprinodon. /// Se sabe mucho con respecto a la ecologa conductual de algunas especies del pez cachorrito (Cyprinodon), pero no se sabe casi nada de la conducta reproductiva y territorial del pez cachorrito de Commanche Springs (C. elegans). Empleando buseo y videografa submarina, se hicieron observaciones de la conducta reproductiva y territorial de C. elegans en la charca surtidora de San Solomon Spring, Balmorhea State Park, Texas. Construimos presupuestos de tiempo de los machos territoriales y manipulamos hitos territoriales. Cyprinodon elegans manifest conducta de cortejo y conducta agonstica que incluan disputas territoriales semejantes a las otras especies de Cyprinodon. Adems, C. elegans utiliz seas visuales como modo para identificar el territorio, as como lo hacen otras especies de Cyprinodon.
3672743|In a 1983 survey of 50 spring-runs in northwestern Arkansas, Etheostoma cragini and E. microperca were each represented by only 5 populations. In summer and autumn 1997, we surveyed localities with historically documented populations and several additional spring-runs for presence of E. cragini and E. microperca to assess the current status of these species in Arkansas. Additionally, we documented local habitat attributes of each sample locality. We estimated population size of persistent populations in our surveys by mark-recapture method. Two populations of E. cragini had 546 (214) and 79 (60) individuals, and 2 populations of E. microperca had 1,341 (349) and 129 (56) individuals. Both darters inhabited small spring-run habitats with sand and silt substrate and some aquatic vegetation. These species are at risk of extirpation in Arkansas and should be considered for protection. /// En un estudio en 1983 de 50 tramos de manantiales en el noroeste de Arkansas, cada especie de Etheostoma cragini y E. microperca estuvo presente en slo 5 poblaciones. En el verano y el otoo de 1997, muestreamos localidades que histricamente haban tenido poblaciones, ms algunos tramos de manantiales por E. cragini y E. microperca para evaluar el estatus actual de estas especies en Arkansas. Adems, documentamos las caractersticas del hbitat en cada localidad muestreada. Estimamos el tamao poblacional de las poblaciones persistentes en nuestros muestreos por el mtodo de marca-recaptura. Dos poblaciones de E. cragini tuvieron 546 (214) y 79 (60) individuos, y 2 poblaciones de E. microperca tuvieron 1,341 (349) y 129 (56) individuos. Ambos peces dardo vivieron en hbitats de pequeos tramos de manantiales con el sustrato de arena y de barro y con alguna vegetacin acutica. Estas especies estn en riesgo de extirpacin en Arkansas y deben ser consideradas para proteccin.
3672744|The Oklahoma salamander, Eurycea tynerensis, is an endemic species restricted to the superficial currents that exist in mountain streams of the Ozarks in Oklahoma, Missouri, and Arkansas. The results of our study show a close relationship between the salamander and the presence of rocks from the Ordovician/Silurian period. The small interstitial spaces created by the structure of this type of rock provide ideal habitat for the development of this neotenic species. /// La salamandra de Oklahoma, Eurycea tynerensis, es una especie endmica restringida a las corrientes superficiales de los riachuelos que existen en las montaas Ozark de Oklahoma, Missouri, y Arkansas. Los resultados de nuestro estudio demuestran una estrecha correlacin entre la salamandra y la presencia de rocas del perodo Ordoviciano/Siluriano. Los pequeos espacios intersticiales de la estructura de este tipo de roca proveen un hbitat ideal para el desarrollo de esta especie neotnica.
3672745|Summer activity and nesting biology of Plethodon angusticlavius is poorly known. On 7 July 1999, 6 brooding females were discovered in a small cave in the Arkansas Ozarks. The salamanders were monitored during the summers of 1999 and 2000 to determine nesting behavior, oviposition date, clutch size, egg development, and hatching date. We documented the first report of egg deposition by P. angusticlavius and confirmed speculations on the reproductive habits and nesting behavior of an endemic Ozark salamander. /// La actividad del verano y la biologa de crianza de P. angusticlavius no se conocen bien. El 7 de julio de 1999, en una pequea cueva en las montaas Ozark del estado de Arkansas se descubrieron seis hembras con cras. Las salamandras fueron observadas durante los veranos de 1999 y 2000 para determinar el comportamiento de anidada, la fecha de oviposicin, el tamao de la puesta, el desarrollo de los huevos, y la fecha de eclosin. ste estudio documenta la primera observacin de la oviposicin de P. angusticlavius, y tambin confirma especulaciones de su comportamiento reproductivo y de crianza para esta salamandra endmica de las montaas Ozark.
3672746|Information on the feeding habits of a paedomorphic population of Ambystoma ordinarium is presented. Caddisfly larvae composed the greatest portion of the diet in numbers and frequency of occurrence, but grasshoppers were the most abundant item by volume. Smaller paedomorphs selected large numbers of small prey, whereas the largest size class fed on fewer but larger prey. /// Se presenta informacin sobre los hbitos alimenticios de una poblacin de paedomorfos de Ambystoma ordinarium. Las larvas de tricpteros presentaron el valor ms alto en nmero y en el ndice de importancia relativa, mientras que los ortpteros fueron los artculos con mayor valor de volumen. Los paedomorfos ms pequeos presentaron en sus estmagos numerosas presas pequeas, mientras que los paedomorfos ms grandes consumieron presas ms grandes en menor cantidad.
3672747|We report the results of standardized surveys to determine the effects of wildfires on desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) and their habitats in the northeastern Mojave Desert and northeastern Sonoran Desert. Portions of 6 burned areas (118 to 1,750 ha) were examined for signs of mortality of vertebrates. Direct effects of fire in desert habitats included animal mortality and loss of vegetation cover. A range of 0 to 7 tortoises was encountered during surveys, and live tortoises were found on all transects. In addition to desert tortoises, only small (<1 kg) mammals and reptiles (11 taxa) were found dead on the study areas. We hypothesize that indirect effects of fire on desert habitats might result in changes in the composition of diets and loss of vegetation cover, resulting in an increase in predation and loss of protection from temperature extremes. These changes in habitat also might cause changes in vertebrate communities in burned areas. /// Reportamos los resultados de muestreos uniformes para determinar los efectos de incendios del monte en las tortugas del desierto (Gopherus agassizii) y sus hbitats en el noreste del Desierto Mojave y noreste del Desierto Sonorense. Porciones de 6 reas quemadas (de 118 a 1,750 ha) fueron inspeccionadas por signos de mortandad de vertebrados. Efectos directos del fuego en hbitats del desierto incluyeron mortalidad animal y prdida de cobertura vegetal. Un rango de 0 a 7 tortugas muertas fue encontrado durante los muestreos y se encontraron tortugas vivas en todos los transectos. Adems de tortugas del desierto, solamente mamferos pequeos (<1 kg) y reptiles (11 taxa) se encontraron muertos en las reas quemadas. Proponemos que los efectos indirectos del fuego en hbitats del desierto pueden resultar en cambios en la composicin de la dieta de habitantes y prdida de la cobertura vegetal, resultando en un aumento de depredadores y la prdida de proteccin contra temperaturas extremas. Estos cambios en hbitat tambin pueden causar cambios en las comunidades de vertebrados en las reas quemadas.
3672748|Colorado Division of Wildlife currently considers the Texas horned lizard a species of special concern. From May 1995 to October 1997, Texas horned lizards were captured or collected during the active season from 6 counties in Colorado to document abundance and distribution of the species. We captured or collected 290 Texas horned lizards (170 alive and 120 dead on road). In Colorado, average snout-vent length (SVL) for adult males was not significantly different from females; the largest male and female lizards measured 84.9 mm SVL and 90.4 mm SVL, respectively. The sex ratio of adult males to adult females is 1M:1.4F. Results of distribution and habitat analysis indicated that the Texas horned lizard in Colorado is locally common in arid shortgrass and sandsage prairie lacking ground litter. Activity of the Texas horned lizard in Colorado is diurnal in spring and fall and bimodal (almost crepuscular) in the summer. Texas horned lizards in Colorado apparently breed in May and June, and hatchlings emerge in late August to mid-September. Mortality due to vehicle traffic seems high, but because the Texas horned lizard occurs in remote areas, the Colorado population in general seems to be relatively stable. /// La divisin de vida silvestre del estado de Colorado denomina el lagarto Phrynosoma cornutum como una de las especies en riesgo en el estado. De mayo de 1995 a octubre de 1997, se documentaron capturas y colectas del lagarto P. cornutum durante la poca de actividad para determinar su abundancia y distribucin en seis condados del estado de Colorado. Capturamos o colectamos 290 lagartos (170 vivos y 120 muertos en la carretera). En Colorado, el promedio longitudinal hocico-cloaca (LHC) para adultos macho no fue significativamente diferente que el de las hembras; el macho y la hembra ms largos midieron 84.9 mm LHC y 90.4 mm LHC, respectivamente. La proporcin de machos y hembras adultos fue de 1M:1.4H. Los resultados de la distribucin y el anlisis de hbitat indican que el lagarto P. cornutum en Colorado habita praderas ridas de grama corta y de mata Artemisia que carecen de hojarasca. En Colorado, la actividad del lagarto P. cornutum es diurna durante la primavera y el otoo y bimodal (casi crepuscular) durante el verano. El lagarto aparentemente se aparea en mayo y en junio y sus cras emergen desde fines de agosto hasta mediados de septiembre. La mortandad debido al trfico vehicular parece alta, pero dada la abundancia del lagarto en reas remotas, la poblacin de lagartos P. cornutum en Colorado parece ser relativamente estable.
3672749|We studied diets of 3 species of lizards in the genus Xenosaurus (X. grandis, X. newmanorum, X. platyceps) from Mxico. In general, the 3 species ate a diversity of prey, but the most important prey were insects (particularly Coleoptera and Orthoptera). Mammal remains and plant material were found in the diet of X. newmanorum. /// Estudiamos la dieta de 3 especies de lagartijas del gnero Xenosaurus de Mxico (X. grandis, X. newmanorum, X. platyceps). En general las 3 especies consumieron diversas presas, pero las presas ms importantes fueron los insectos (particularmente Coleptera y Ortptera). Tejidos mamferos y partes de plantas fueron encontrados en la dieta de X. newmanorum.
3672750|We studied 2 populations of Sceloporus ochoteranae to determine if there were differences in body size, sexual dimorphism, and clutch size. Males were larger and had larger heads than females. Sceloporus ochoteranae from the Can del Zopilote (elevation 600 m) were smaller, had narrower heads and longer femurs, and had smaller clutches than those from Acatlan (elevation 1,250 m). /// Estudiamos 2 poblaciones de Sceloporus ochoteranae para determinar si hay diferencias en tamao corporal, dimorfismo sexual y tamao de la puesta. Los machos fueron ms grandes y tuvieron cabezas ms grandes que las hembras. Sceloporus ochoteranae del Can del Zopilote (600 m de elevacin) fueron ms pequeas, tuvieron cabezas ms angostas, y fmures ms largos, y tuvieron tamaos de la puesta ms pequeos que las de Acatlan (1,250 m de elevacin).
3672751|Parthenogenetic reproduction has not precluded the genesis of extensive genetic variation in the whiptail lizard, Cnemidophorus tesselatus. In Conchas Lake State Park, San Miguel County, New Mexico, the population of C. tesselatus includes pattern class C, with 4 allozyme variants, and pattern class D, with 3 allozyme variants. In 1988, we obtained a lizard in the park, described herein, with a unique color pattern and unusual meristic characters, which indicate that occasional females of C. tesselatus continue to be capable of producing neonates phenotypically different from the mother. /// La reproduccin partenogentica no ha impedido la gnesis de la extensa variacin gentica en la lagartija rayada Cnemidophorus tesselatus. En el parque estatal Lago Conchas, condado de San Miguel, Nuevo Mxico, la poblacin de C. tesselatus incluye el patrn clase C con 4 variantes de alozimas y el patrn clase D con 3 variantes de alozimas. En 1988 obtuvimos una lagartija en este parque, la cual se describe aqu, con un patrn de coloracin nico e inusuales caractersticas mersticas que indican que ocasionalmente las hembras de C. tesselatus continan siendo capaces de producir cras fenotpicamente diferentes a la madre.
3672752|This article reports the first record of white-faced ibis (Plegadis chihi) nesting in Arizona and describes observations during the nesting period. On 21 June 2000, a colony of approximately 75 nests was discovered on an island of bulrush (Scirpus) in Cibola Lake, a back-water of the Colorado River within Cibola National Wildlife Refuge in southwestern Arizona. Based on date of first hatching, egg laying began about 15 June 2000. Ibis nests were monitored weekly. Overall, nesting success in this colony was low, with a fledging rate of slightly less than 1 young per pair. /// Este artculo hace el primer registro del ibis de cara blanca (Plegadis chihi) anidando en Arizona, e incluye observaciones hechas durante el perodo de anidada. E1 21 de junio del 2000, se descubri una colonia de aproximadamente 75 nidos en una isla de vegetacin de cinaga (Scirpus), en el Lago Cibola, un cuerpo de agua aislado del Ro Colorado, ubicado en el Cibola National Wildlife Refuge, en el suroeste de Arizona. De acuerdo a la fecha de primera eclosin, la puesta de huevos comenz alrededor del 15 de junio. Se hicieron observaciones de los nidos semanalmente. En general, el xito de eclosin de la colonia fue bajo, con una tasa de volantones menor de un juvenil por pareja.
3672753|We examined 56 fecal pellets from under a maternity colony of big free-tailed bats (Nyctinomops macrotis) in the Jemez Mountains of northern New Mexico. The most important food items, listed in order of decreasing percent volume, were Cicadellidae, leafhoppers (26.7% volume, 58.9% frequency); Ichneumonidae, Ichneumon wasps (19.3% volume, 34.7% frequency); and Lepidoptera, moths (17.2% volume, 82.1% frequency). Overall, the most important orders as prey consumed, listed by decreasing percent volume, were Homoptera (27.6% volume, 62.5% frequency), Hymenoptera (19.5% volume, 37.5% frequency), Lepidoptera (17.2% volume, 82.1% frequency), Hemiptera (11.7% volume, 37.5% frequency), and Diptera (10.6% volume, 50.0% frequency). Our study documents an unusually varied diet, as previous studies indicated that these bats fed almost exclusively on moths. /// Analizamos 56 fecas de una colonia de maternidad de los murcilagos grandes de cola libre Nyctinomops macrotis en las montaas de Jemez, en el norte de Nuevo Mxico. Los alimentos ms importantes, listados en porcentaje de volumen fueron Cicadellidae (26.7% volumen, 58.9% frecuencia), Ichneumonidae (19.3% volumen, 35.7% frecuencia), y Lepidptera (17.2% volumen, 82.1% frecuencia). Los rdenes consumidos comnmente en porcentaje de volumen decreciente fueron Homptera (27.6% volumen, 62.5% frecuencia), Himenptera (19.5% volumen, 37.5% frecuencia), Lepidptera (17.2% volumen, 82.1% frecuencia), Hemptera (11.7% volumen, 37.5% frecuencia), y Dptera (10.6% volumen, 50.0% frecuencia). Nuestro estudio documenta una dieta sumamente amplia, diferente de estudios anteriores, que indicaron que estos murcilagos se alimentaban casi exclusivamente de palomillas.
3672754|From 1993 to 1995, wild mammals were collected to update the inventory of mammals for the State of Durango, Mexico. New records were obtained for the following species: river otter or water dog (Lontra longicaudis), ocelot (Leopardus pardalis), margay (Leopardus wiedii), jaguarundi (Herpailurus yagouaroundi), and banner-tailed kangaroo rat (Dipodomys spectabilis). With these new records, the species list of mammals for Durango, Mxico, increased to 134. /// De 1993 a 1995 se Ilevaron a cabo colectas de mamferos silvestres en el Estado de Durango, Mxico, para actualizar su inventario. Se obtuvieron como nuevos registros a las siguientes especies: nutria de ro o perro de agua (Lontra longicaudis), ocelote (Leopardus pardalis), margay o tigrillo (Leopardus wiedii), yaguarundi (Herpailurus yagouaroundi), y la rata canguro cola de ban dera (Dipodomys spectabilis). Con stos nuevos registros, el nmero de especies de mamferos se increment a 134 en el Estado de Durango, Mxico.
3672755|We report 7 species of free-tailed bats (Family Molossidae) from a single locality in the state of Durango, Mxico. Three (Molossops greenhalli, Molossus molossus, Nyctinomops laticaudatus) are recorded for the first time in the state, whereas the remaining 4 (Eumops perotis, Molossus ater, Nyctinomops macrotis, Tadarida brasiliensis) represent considerable range extensions. The high diversity of bats found in the San Juan de Camarones region evinces its priority for protection and conservation efforts. /// Se reporta la presencia de siete especies de murcilagos de la familia Molossidae proveniente de una sola localidad (San Juan de Camarones) en el estado de Durango, Mxico. Tres de stas (Molossops greenhalli, Molossus molossus, Nyctinomops laticaudatus) se reportan por primera vez para el estado, en tanto que las restantes (Eumops perotis, Molossus ater, Nyctinomops macrotis, Tadarida brasiliensis) representan extensiones considerables de la distribucin. La alta diversidad de murcilagos en la regin de San Juan de Camarones confirma la prioridad para su proteccin y conservacin.
3672756|Desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) are known for their climbing skills in rugged and steep terrain. Occasionally sheep die from climbing accidents. Between 1979 and 1995, the Arizona Game and Fish Department reintroduced desert bighorn sheep to areas within their historic distribution: northwest, southwest, southeast, and central Arizona. Because at least half of reintroduced sheep (n = 412) were fitted with radiocollars and monitored monthly, we documented mortalities by climbing accidents. None of 54 mortalities in the southeastern region and 53 mortalities in the southwestern region was identified as climbing accidents. However, climbing accidents caused 5 of 42 sheep mortalities in the northwestern region and 4 out of 54 mortalities in the central region. Most climbing accidents (7 out of 9) happened <9 months after sheep were translocated. Our data suggest that translocated desert bighorn sheep can be vulnerable to climbing accidents due to lack of familiarity with local terrain. Differential vulnerability between regions might be related to differences in substrate, ruggedness of terrain, or both at release sites. Additionally, sheep translocated from less rugged terrain might be more likely to fall in new areas than sheep translocated from more rugged terrain. /// El borrego cimarrn (Ovis canadensis) es conocido por sus habilidades para trepar en terrenos escabrosos y accidentados. Ocasionalmente borregos mueren en accidentes de trepar. Entre 1979 y 1995 el Departamento de Caza y Pesca de Arizona reintrodujo borregos cimarrones en reas de su distribucin histrica en ese estado: noroeste, suroeste, sureste y central. Debido a que aproximadamente la mitad de los borregos reintroducidos (n = 412) se equiparon con radiocollares y se monitorearon mensualmente, documentamos las mortalidades por accidentes al trepar. De 54 muertes en la regin sureste y 53 muertes en la regin suroeste, ninguna se identific como mortalidad por accidente al trepar. Sin embargo, en la regin noroeste, 5 de 42 muertes, y en la regin central 4 de 54 muertes, fueron por accidentes al trepar. La mayora de los accidentes al trepar (7 de 9) ocurrieron <9 meses despus de que los borregos fueron reintroducidos. Nuestros datos sugieren que los borregos cimarrones reintroducidos pueden ser vulnerables a mortalidades por accidentes al trepar debido al desconocimiento del terreno local. Las diferencias en vulnerabilidad entre las regiones pueden estar relacionadas a diferencias en el sustrato y/o lo accidentado del terreno en los sitios de liberacin. Adems, los borregos reintroducidos provenientes de terrenos menos accidentados pueden estar ms predispuestos a cadas en reas nuevas que los que provienen de terrenos ms accidentados.
3672757|Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) bearing malformed antlers have been observed in northern Arizona during the last 10 years. We collected measurements from 28 skulls of bulls bearing abnormal antlers from the Hualapai Indian Reservation in northwestern Arizona. Most abnormalities were unilateral. Deformed antlers were smaller and had fewer points than normal ones, and originated from deformed pedicles. The abnormal pedicles tended to be larger, and varied in orientation and location relative to normal pedicles. Some males lacked pedicles on 1 side, and the deformed antlers originated directly from the frontal bones. Similar antler and pedicle abnormalities have been documented in other elk populations in northern Arizona. The appearance of the abnormal pedicles was consistent with fracture and subsequent repair of the bones. Such damage might be incurred during sparring among males, and multiple factors might predispose the pedicles to injury. /// En los ltimos diez aos, se han observado en la regin norte de Arizona, venados alazn (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) con cuernos malformados.Colectamos datos de 28 crneos de machos con cuernos anormales de la Reserva Indgena Hualapai en el noroeste de Arizona. La mayora de anormalidades fueron unilaterales. Las astas deformes eran ms pequeas y tenan menos puntas que las normales, y provenan de pedculos deformes.Los pedculos anormales tendieron a ser ms grandes y variaron en orientacin y ubicacin con relacin a los normales. Algunos machos carecieron de pedculos en un costado, y los cuernos deformes se originaban directamente de los huesos frontales. Anormalidades similares en los pedculos y en las astas han sido documentadas en otras poblaciones de venados alazn en la regin norte de Arizona. Los pedculos anormales consistentemente aparecieron con fractura de huesos, seguida por la reparacin de los mismos. Esta malformacin puede darse debido a las peleas entre machos, y a otros factores que predisponen los pedculos a lesiones.
3672314|Vegetation types in Cumbres de Majalca National Park were classified using cluster analysis from 195 line transects and 975 1-m<sup>2</sup> quadrats at 39 sites. Six plant associations emerged from oak-grassland and oak-conifer communities. Each association is described using cover, constancy, elevation, physiographic, and soil parameters. A vegetation profile and a map of the plant associations are presented. /// Los tipos de vegetacin del Parque Nacional Cumbres de Majalca fueron clasificados mediante anlisis de conglomerados con datos colectados mediante un muestreo de 195 transectos y 975 cuadrantes de 1 m<sup>2</sup> en 39 sitios. Seis asociaciones de plantas emergieron de las comunidades encinar-pastizal y encino-pino. Cada asociacin vegetal se describe utilizando cobertura, constancia, altitud, fisiografa, y parmetros del suelo. Se presentan un mapa de las asociaciones vegetales y un perfil de vegetacin.
3672315|We compared production and breakdown of Fremont cottonwood (Populus deltoides wislizenii) leaf litter at matched floodplain sites on the regulated Green River and unregulated Yampa River in semi-arid northwestern Colorado. Litter production under trees was similar at sites in 1999 (250 g/m<sup>2</sup>, oven-dry) but lower in 2000 (215 and 130 g/m<sup>2</sup>), a drought year that also featured an outbreak of defoliating beetles at the Yampa River site. Our production values were similar to the few others reported for riparian forests within semi-arid or arid areas. Leaf litter in portions of the floodplain not inundated during the spring flood lost organic matter at the same rate as leaves placed in upland sites in 1998 and 2000: 35 to 50% of organic matter during an approximately 160-day spring and summer period. Inundated litter lost 55 to 90% of its organic matter during the same period. Organic matter loss from inundated leaves increased with duration of inundation and with deposition of fine sediment. Pooled across locations, leafpack data suggested that nitrogen concentration (mg N/kg organic matter) increased until about 65% of the initial organic matter was lost. This increase likely reflected the buildup of microbial decomposer populations. The role of insects and other macroinvertebrates in litter breakdown apparently was minor at both sites. Large spatial and temporal variation in litter dynamics in aridland floodplain settings is ensured by microtopographic variation in the alluvial surface coupled with year-to-year variation associated with most natural flood regimes. Factors reducing flood flow frequency or magnitude will reduce overall breakdown rates on the floodplain towards those found in drier upland environments. /// Comparamos la produccin y la descomposicin de la hojarasca del lamo (Populus deltoides wislizenii) en sitios emparejados de llanos de inundacin en el ro regulado Green y del ro no regulado Yampa en la parte semi-rida del noroeste de Colorado, USA. La hojarasca bajo rboles fue similar en los sitios en 1999 (250 g/m<sup>2</sup>, secada al horno), pero ms baja en 2000 (215 y 130 g/m<sup>2</sup>), un ao seco que tambin present una plaga de escarabajos desfoliadores en el sitio del Ro Yampa. Nuestros valores de la produccin fueron similares a los pocos otros registrados para bosques riparios en reas semi-ridas y ridas. La hojarasca ubicada en las partes de los llanos de inundacin no inundadas durante las inundaciones de la primavera perdi la materia orgnica a la misma tasa que hojas colocadas en sitios tierra arriba en 1998 y 2000: 35 a 50% de la materia orgnica desapareci durante un perodo de aproximadamente 160 das en la primavera y el verano. La hojarasca inundada perdi 55 a 90% de su materia orgnica durante el mismo perodo. La prdida de la materia orgnica de las hojas inundadas increment con la duracin de la inundacin y con la deposicin se sedimento fino. Juntando todas las localidades, los datos de las hojas agrupadas sugieren que la concentracin de nitrgeno (mg N/kg de materia orgnica) increment hasta cerca de 65% de la materia orgnica original se haba perdido. El incremento quizs refleje la acumulacin de poblaciones de microbios descompositores. El papel de los insectos y de otros macroinvertebrados en la descomposicin de la hojarasca pareci menor en ambos sitios. Gran variacin espacial y temporal en la dinmica de la hojarasca en llanos de inundacin en tierras ridas se asegura por variacin microtopogrfica en la superficie aluvial, junto con la variacin entre aos asociada con la mayora de los regmenes naturales de inundaciones. Factores reductores de la frecuencia de las inundaciones o su magnitud reducen las tasas de descomposicin generales en los llanos de inundacin hacia a aquellos encontrados en ambientes tierra arriba ms secos.
3672316|Activity above ground by the white desertsnail, Eremarionta immaculata, in relation to air temperature and humidity (saturation deficit) was observed during daylight 2 to 5 days following rainfall of 12 mm on 11 January 2001. A maximum of 12 snails was observed active within a 15-m by 15-m quadrat near the type locality of the species in the Riverside Mountains, California. Number of active snails increased as air temperature (8 to 23C) increased and as saturation deficit (2.5 to 16 mm Hg) decreased. Most variation in number of active snails was attributed to saturation deficit. Active snails preferred epiphyta (lichen and moss) as a substrate compared with other types of substrate (plant detritus and 4 size-classes of rocks) within the quadrat. Epiphyta might provide active snails with food or with a moister surface, increasing water absorption. /// La actividad sobre la tierra por el caracol blanco del desierto, Eremarionta immaculata, con relacin a la temperatura del aire y a la humedad (dficit de saturacin) fue observada durante las horas del sol de 2 a 5 das despus de una lluvia de 12 mm el 11 de enero del 2001. Un mximo de 12 caracoles activos fue observado en un rea de 15 m por 15 m cuadrados cerca de la localidad tipo de la especie en Riverside Mountains, California. El nmero de caracoles activos aument con la temperatura del aire (8 a 23C) mientras que el dficit de la saturacin (2.5 a 16 mm Hg) disminuy. La mayora de la variacin en el nmero de caracoles activos fue atribuida al dficit de la saturacin. Los caracoles activos prefirieron epifitas (liquen y musgo) como sustrato comparada con otros tipos de sustrato (detritus vegetal y 4 tamaos de rocas) dentro del cuadrante. Las epifitas pueden proveer a caracoles activos alimento o una superficie ms hmeda, aumentando la absorcin de agua.
3672317|We examined 404 specimens representing 7 species of sceloporine lizards from Mexico (Sceloporus formosus, S. grammicus, S. megalepidurus, S. mucronatus, S. parvus, S. torquatus, and S. variabilis) for helminths. Two species of Cestoda (Oochoristica scelopori and Mesocestoides larvae) and 9 species of Nematoda (Atractis penneri, Physaloptera retusa, Spauligodon giganticus, S. oxkutzcabiensis, Strongyluris similis, Thubunaea intestinalis, Ascarops larvae, Physocephalus larvae, and Acuariidea larvae) were found. The mean number of helminth species for each species of lizard was 4.7  1.5 SD (range = 3 to 7). Twenty-six new host records and 23 new locality records are reported. /// Cuatrocientos cuatro especimenes representando 7 especies de lagartijas de Mxico (Sceloporus formosus, S. grammicus, S. megalepidurus, S. mucronatus, S. parvus, S. torquatus, y S. variabilis) fueron examinados para helmintos. Dos especies de Cstoda (Oochoristica scelopori y larvas de Mesocestoides) y 9 especies de Nemtoda (Atractis penneri, Physaloptera retusa, Spauligodon giganticus, S. oxkutzcabiensis, Strongyluris similis, Thubunaea intestinalis, y larvas de Ascarops, Physocephalus y Acuariidea) fueron encontrados. El nmero medio de especies de helmintos para cada especie de lagartija fue 4.7  1.5 DE (rango = 3 a 7). Se presentan 26 nuevos registros de hospedero y 23 nuevos registros de localidad.
3672318|Whiskered screech-owls (Otus trichopsis) and northern pygmy-owls (Glaucidium gnoma) delivered freshly caught Yarrow's spiny lizards (Sceloporus jarrovi) and striped plateau lizards (S. virgatus) to nestlings from dusk to dark in southeastern Arizona. This observation stimulated studies of the prey deliveries by the owls and lizard activity patterns, because the lizards are not known to be nocturnal. Lizards were more frequent prey of both owls than endothermic vertebrates but infrequent compared to arthropods, a pattern in the pygmy-owl that differs from its northern populations. Yarrow's spiny lizard, the most abundant and frequently captured lizard, was most active in the morning but also active in the evening. Striped plateau lizard, the second most abundant and depredated species, had morning and evening peaks of activity. Few lizards, including S. clarki and Urosaurus ornatus, but not Cnemidophorus exsanguis and C. sonorae, were active at or after dark, when relatively few were captured by the owls. /// El tecolote barbn (Otus trichopsis) y el tecolote serrano (Glaucidium gnoma) llevaron lagartijas espinosas de Yarrow (Sceloporus jarrovi) y lagartijas de meseta rayadas (S. virgatus) a sus nidos desde el atardecer hasta el anochecer en el sureste de Arizona. Esta observacin estimul estudios de entregas de presas a nidos de tecolotes y patrones de actividad de lagartijas ya que stas no son conocidas como nocturnas. Las lagartijas fueron presas ms frecuentes de ambos tecolotes que los endotermos, pero infrecuentes comparadas con insectos, un patrn en que los tecolotes serranos difieren de sus poblaciones norteas. La lagartija espinosa de Yarrow, que es la ms abundante y frecuentemente capturada, fue ms activa en la maana pero tambin al atardecer, mientras que la lagartija de meseta rayada, que es la segunda ms abundante y depredada de las especies, present picos de actividad en la maana y al atardecer. Pocas lagartijas, incluyendo S. clarki y Urosaurus ornatus pero no Cnemidophorus exsanguis y C. sonorae, fueron activas en la oscuridad, cuando relativamente pocas fueron capturadas por los tecolotes.
3672319|Between 1975 and 2000, 4,525 sightings of wintering bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) were recorded at Mormon Lake in northern Arizona. Numbers of wintering eagles fluctuated little in the 20 years from 1975 through 1994 (5.5  3.0 mean sightings per day). However, during the winters of 1995 through 1997 local record highs of 59 to 118 eagles increased mean sightings per day to 22.4  9.6. This dramatic population increase led to a major change in social behavior favoring consistent communal roosting; maximum roost counts of 2 to 8 eagles scattered among 11 roosts in prior years shifted to maximums of 33 to 45 eagles regularly using 2 roosts during 1996 and 1997. Winter population averaged 58% adults and 42% immatures, but during 5 recent years of greatest numbers (40 eagles in 1989, 1995 through 1997, and 2000), the proportion of immatures increased to 58%. Local increases in the wintering eagle population at Mormon Lake were largely attributable to this greater proportion of immature bald eagles. Both age classes peaked in February, with adults more abundant during October through December and immatures more abundant from January through April. Weekly maximum counts for 1995 through 1997 indicated changing weather and prey conditions resulted in annual variation in local numbers and habitat use of wintering bald eagles. /// Entre 1975 y 2000, 4,525 avistamientos invernales de guilas calvas (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) fueron registrados en Mormon Lake en el norte de Arizona. Los nmeros de guilas invernales fluctuaron poco en los 20 aos entre 1975 y 1994 (5.5  3.0 avistamientos promedio por da). Sin embargo, durante los inviernos de 1995-1997 altos registros locales de 59-118 guilas incrementaron el promedio de avistamientos por da a 22.4  9.6. Este aumento dramtico de la poblacin condujo a un cambio importante en el comportamiento social que favoreca pasar la noche en un sitio comunal consistentemente; las cuentas mximas de 2-8 guilas durmiendo juntas en 11 sitios en aos anteriores cambiaron a un mximo de 33 a 45 guilas regularmente usando 2 sitios para dormir durante 1996 y 1997. La poblacin del invierno promedi 58% adultos y 42% inmaduros, pero durante cinco aos recientes de nmeros altos (40 guilas en 1989, 1995-1997, y 2000), la proporcin de inmaduros aument a 58%. Los aumentos locales en la poblacin invernal del guila en Mormon Lake se atribuyeron en gran parte a esta mayor proporcin de guilas calvas inmaduras. Ambos grupos de edad alcanzaron su mximo en febrero, con los adultos ms abundantes desde octubre hasta diciembre y los inmaduros ms abundantes desde enero hasta abril. Las cuentas semanales mximas de 1995-1997 indicaron que las condiciones cambiantes de clima y de presa resultaron en variacin anual de nmeros locales y el uso de hbitat de guilas calvas invernantes.
3672320|Our study documents home range, habitat use, and diet of Gould's turkey (Meleagris gallopavo mexicana) in the Peloncillo Mountains of New Mexico and Arizona. Fieldwork began in 1989 and consisted of 2 field seasons from May to August, with periodic winter and spring forays. The study was conducted during a drought period with only 58% of average rainfall. Combined annual home range (mean = 4,385 ha, SE = 1,845) of radio-equipped Gould's hens was similar to home ranges of other wild turkey subspecies that inhabit arid regions of the western United States. Preferred Gould's turkey habitat consisted of pinyon-juniper woodland with an abundance of pinyon ricegrass (Piptochaetium fimbriatum). In addition, 3 riparian habitat types were used disproportionately to their availability. A food habits analysis showed that the diet of turkey in our study consisted primarily of juniper (Juniperus deppeana) and manzanita (Arctostaphylos pungens) fruit, though mustard forbs (Cruciferae spp.) and pinyon ricegrass also were utilized. Periodic drought combined with livestock grazing in the Peloncillo Mountains most likely is a major factor determining forage availability and subsequent habitat use by this turkey population. A combination of natural and anthropogenic factors might result in fluctuations in the Gould's turkey population. /// Este proyecto documenta el rango de hogar, uso de hbitat y dieta del pavo de Gould (Meleagris gallopavo mexicana) de las montaas Peloncillos de los estados de Nuevo Mxico y Arizona de los Estados Unidos. El trabajo de campo comenz en 1989 y consisti en dos temporadas de mayo hasta agosto, con observaciones ocasionales en el invierno y en la primavera. El estudio fue realizado durante un perodo de sequa con slo 58% de precipitacin media. El rango de hogar anual agrupado (mean = 4,385 ha, SE = 1,845) de las hembras del pavo de Gould equipadas con radios fue similar a los de otras subespecies de pavos salvajes que habitan las regiones ridas del oeste de los Estados Unidos. El hbitat preferido del pavo de Gould consisti del bosque leoso de pion y enebro con una abundancia del pasto Piptochaetium fimbriatum. Tambin, 3 tipos de hbitat ribereo fueron usados desproporcionadamente a su disponibilidad. Un anlisis de alimentos demostr que la dieta del pavo estudiado consisti principalmente de los frutos de enebro (Juniperus deppeana) y de manzanito (Arctostaphylos pungens), aunque hierbas (Cruciferus spp.) y el pasto P. fimbriatum tambin fueron utilizados. Perodos de sequa combinados con pastoraje de ganado en las montaas Peloncillos probablemente son los factores principales que determinan la disponibilidad de forraje y subsecuente uso de hbitat de esta poblacin de pavo. Una combinacin de factores naturales y antropognicos puede resultar en fluctuaciones en la poblacin del pavo de Gould.
3672321|The High Plains of Texas is one of the southernmost nontraditional breeding areas for many duck species in North America. Because of a paucity of information on breeding ducks there, we conducted roadside surveys of breeding ducks and their habitats during May and June from 1988 through 1992. Breeding pairs of 15 species were observed on 6 types of ponds (natural and man-made wetlands containing surface water). Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) density ranged from 9.1 to 23.1 pairs/100 km<sup>2</sup>, and density for all species combined ranged from 14.8 to 46.7 pairs/100 km<sup>2</sup> (all years and survey periods included). Occupancy rates were highest on playa lakes and impoundments, though all pond types had occupancy rates exceeding 26% (all surveys and years). Duck pairs per occupied pond were highest on playa lakes (>7 and >4 on May and June surveys, respectively), followed by impoundments (>5 and >2) and entrenched draws (>2 and >3). Although the density of breeding pairs in the High Plains of Texas (47 pairs/100 km<sup>2</sup>) is generally lower than in prominent nesting areas (e.g., >200 in the San Luis Valley, CO; >600 in central Montana; >2,000 in California; >4,000 in the Prairie Pothole Region), information reported here further confirms the use of the Playa Lakes Region by breeding ducks and illustrates its importance as a major habitat area for waterfowl in the Central Flyway. /// Las altas llanuras de Texas son unas de las reas de criadero no tradicionales ms al sur para muchas especies de patos de Norteamrica. Debido a una escasez de informacin referente a patos reproductivos en esa rea, llevamos a cabo muestreos al lado de la carretera de patos reproductivos y sus hbitats durante mayo y junio de 1988 a 1992. Parejas reproductivas de 15 especies fueron observadas en 6 tipos de estanques (pantanos naturales y pantanos artificiales conteniendo agua superficial). La densidad del pato real (Anas platyrhynchos) fluctuaba entre 9.1 a 23.1 parejas/100 km<sup>2</sup>, y la densidad de todas las especies combinadas fluctuaba entre 14.8 a 46.7 parejas/100 km<sup>2</sup> (todos los aos y muestreos incluidos). Tasas de residencia fueron ms altas en lagos playa y embalses, aunque todos los tipos de estanques tuvieron tasas de residencia en exceso del 26% (todos los muestreos y aos). Las parejas de patos por estanque ocupado fueron ms altas en lagos playa (>7 y >4 en muestreos de mayo y junio, respectivamente), seguidas por embalses (>5 y >2) y canales atrincherados (>2 y >3). A pesar de que la densidad de parejas reproductivas en las llanuras altas de Texas (47 parejas/100 km<sup>2</sup>) generalmente es menor que en reas nidales prominentes (por ejemplo, >200 en el Valle de San Luis, Colorado; >600 en Montana central; >2,000 en California; >4,000 en la Regin de Marmitas de la Pradera), la informacin suministrada aqu confirma el uso de la Regin de los Lagos Playa por patos reproductivos e ilustra su importancia como un rea de hbitat principal para aves acuticas en la Ruta de Vuelo Central.
3672322|A partial left dentary containing c1 and p2-ml is described as the second reported specimen of Bassariscus ogallalae, a taxon erected nearly 70 years ago. The specimen is from an early late Miocene (late Barstovian/early Clarendonian) exposure of the Ogallala Group in Ellis County, Kansas. Comparison of B. ogallalae to specimens of other species of Bassariscus, including a relatively large sample of B. astutus, reveals that only 2 of the original 4 diagnostic characters remain valid. A relatively large series of measurements and associated ratios reveal no new meristic characters that can be used to distinguish B. ogallalae from other species of Bassariscus. This specimen extends the temporal range of Bassariscus in Kansas from the Recent to the early late Miocene. /// Una mandbula izquierda parcial que contiene c1 y p2-m1 se describe como el segundo espcimen de Bassariscus ogallalae, un taxn que se erigi casi hace 70 aos. El ejemplar es de una exposicin de los principios del mioceno tardo (Barstovio tardo/Clarendonio temprano) de la Formacin de Ogallala en el condado de Ellis, Kansas. La comparacin de B. ogallalae a otros ejemplares de otras especies de Bassariscus, incluyendo una muestra relativamente grande de B. astutus, revela que solamente 2 de los 4 caracteres diagnsticos originales siguen siendo vlidos. Una serie relativamente grande de medidas y proporciones asociadas no revela ningn nuevo carcter merstico que se pueda utilizar para distinguir B. ogallalae de otras especies de Bassariscus. Este ejemplar extiende el rango temporal de Bassariscus en Kansas del tiempo actual a principios del mioceno tardo.
3672323|Abert's squirrels (Sciurus aberti) are thought to depend on ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) for food sources, cover, and nest sites. Records of Abert's squirrels using other food sources, forest types, and nest trees are rare. In the 1940s, Abert's squirrels were introduced to ponderosa pine forests on Mount Graham in the Pinaleo Mountains of southeastern Arizona. Since 1989, while studying Mount Graham red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus grahamensis), we recorded Abert's squirrel sightings. In over 41,000 field-hours of studying Mount Graham red squirrels, we documented 498 Abert's squirrel sightings in both mixed-conifer and spruce-fir forests. Behaviors observed included feeding, collecting nest material, nest building, intraspecific chases, and interactions with the endangered red squirrels in this nontraditional habitat. /// Se cree que las ardillas de Abert (Sciurus aberti) dependen del pino ponderosa (Pinus ponderosa) para comida, cobijo, y sitios para anidar. Registros de ardillas de Abert utilizando otras fuentes de comida, tipos de bosque, o rboles de anidacin son escasos. En la dcada de 1940, ardillas de Abert fueron introducidas en bosques de pino ponderosa de Mount Graham, en las montaas Pinaleo del sureste de Arizona. Desde 1989, mientras estudibamos las ardillas rojas de Mount Graham (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus grahamensis), registramos avistamientos de ardillas de Abert. En ms de 41,000 horas de campo estudiando las ardillas rojas de Mount Graham, documentamos 498 avistamientos de ardillas de Abert, tanto en bosques de conferas mixtas como en bosques de abetos y pceas. Las conductas observadas incluyeron alimentacin, coleccin de material de anidacin, construccin de nidos, persecucin intraespecfica, e interacciones con las ardillas rojas en peligro de extincin en este hbitat no tradicional.
3672324|As a signatory of the Conservation Assessment and Conservation Strategy for Swift Fox, the state of New Mexico is required to manage swift foxes (Vulpes velox) with special diligence. However, basic ecological data for the swift fox in New Mexico are lacking. I examined swift fox demography, home range size, dispersal, den site selection, and diet in northeastern New Mexico. Juveniles comprised the most numerous age class. Body size measurements were generally as large or larger, and weights were smaller, than those reported from more northerly areas. Traumatic injury, presumably by coyotes (Canis latrans), was the primary cause of death. Annual survival rates for adults averaged 0.53. Of 36 swift foxes captured during the study, 4 remained alive on the study area, 21 died, and 11 left the study area by the end of 32 months of field work. The annual 95% MCP home range size estimate was 1,494.5 ha. Diet was dominated by invertebrates and mammals. For den sites, swift foxes preferred the vicinity of roads, areas with greater road density, low slope, hilltops, and sandy loam and clay soils. /// Como un signatario del Conservation Assessment and Conservation Strategy for Swift Fox (La Evaluacin de Conservacin y la Estrategia de Conservacin para el Zorro Veloz), al estado de Nuevo Mxico se le requiere manejar a los zorros veloces (Vulpes velox) con especial diligencia. Sin embargo, faltan los datos bsicos ecolgicos para el zorro veloz en Nuevo Mxico. Estudi la demografa, el tamao de rango de hogar, el movimiento de dispersin, la seleccin del sitio de la madriguera, y la dieta del zorro veloz en el noreste de Nuevo Mxico. Los juveniles fueron la clase de edad ms numerosa. Las medidas corporales generalmente fueron tan o ms grandes, pero los pesos corporales fueron menores, que en reas ms al norte. Lesin traumtica, presumiblemente por coyotes (Canis latrans), fue la causa principal de muerte. La tasa de supervivencia anual de adultos promedi 0.53. De 36 zorros veloces capturados durante el estudio, 4 quedaron vivos en el rea del estudio, 21 murieron, y 11 se fueron del rea de estudio durante los 32 meses de trabajo de campo. La estimacin del tamao de rango de hogar anual (95% MCP) fue 1,494.5 ha. La dieta fue dominada por invertebrados y mamferos. Para sitios de la madriguera, los zorros veloces prefirieron la proximidad de caminos, reas con una densidad mayor de caminos, una vertiente suave, las cumbres de colinas, y un suelo de marga arenosa o arcillosa.
3672325|I compared the presence and abundance of nest-sites made by harvester ants (Pogonomyrmex), the primary prey for the endangered Texas horned lizard (Phrynosoma cornutum), among restored grassland plots planted in different grass species and indigenous prairie. The restored plots had been seeded as part of the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) as exotic monocultures of either Old World bluestem (Bothriochloa ischaemum) or weeping lovegrass (Eragrostis curvula), or as mixtures of native grasses (both with and without buffalograss, Buchlo dactyloides). On average, the fewest ant mounds were found on Old World bluestem plots, whereas the indigenous grassland had the highest density of harvester ant mounds. However, there were no significant differences between native and exotic CRP plantings. Results obtained from a simultaneous visual survey for Texas horned lizards corroborate these findings. Thus, there is no evidence that CRP plots planted in exotic grasses are significantly poorer habitat for Texas horned lizards in terms of ant abundance than native grass plantings. /// Compar la presencia y abundancia de nidos de hormigas Pogonomyrmex, la presa principal del camalen texano (Phrynosoma cornutum), una lagartija en peligro de extincin, en parcelas restauradas de pastizales sembrados de especies diferentes y parcelas de pradera nativa. Dichos parcelas restauradas forman parte del Programa de Conservacin de Reservas (CRP por sus siglas en ingls) y abarcan monocultivos de pastos introducidos (Bothriochloa ischaemum o Eragrostis curvula) o mezclas de pastos nativos (con y sin Buchlo dactyloides). En general, la menor densidad de nidos de hormigas Pogonomyrmex se encontr en las parcelas de Bothriochloa ischaemum, y la mayor densidad de los nidos se encontraron en los pastizales nativos. Sin embargo, no hubo diferencias significativas entre parcelas CRP de pastos exticos y pastos nativos. Los resultados obtenidos de un muestreo visual simultneo del camalen texano corroboran estos resultados. Entonces, no hay ninguna evidencia de que los campos del Programa de Conservacin de Reservas sembrados en pastos exticos son un hbitat significativamente ms pobre para Phrynosoma cornutum en trminos de abundancia de hormigas que los sembrados en pastos nativos.
3672326|I studied 102 Texas horned lizards (Phrynosoma cornutum) encountered along roads or fortuitously at 50 sites in northern, southern, eastern, western, and central Texas from May through September 1999. Female-to-male and juvenile-to-adult ratios were 58:44 and 56:46, respectively. Distribution of horned lizards by sites were 60%, 50%, 50%, 30%, and 0% for the western, southern, northern, central, and eastern portions of the state, respectively. Average number of lizards captured was greater in the southern region compared to the central and eastern regions. The size of juvenile lizards was similar by region and sex; however, adult lizards were heavier and larger in the southern region compared to the western region. /// Estudi 102 camaleones texanos (Phrynosoma cornutum) encontrados alrededor de caminos o en otros lugares en 50 localidades del norte, sur, este, oeste y centro de Texas de mayo a septiembre de 1999. La proporcin hembra-macho y juvenil-adulto fue de 58:44 y 56:46, respectivamente. La distribucin por localidades de los camaleones estudiados fue de 60%, 50%, 50%, 30%, y 0% para el oeste, sur, norte, centro, y este del estado, respectivamente. El promedio de capturas de lagartijas fue mayor en la regin sur en comparacin con las regiones centro y este. El tamao de los camaleones juveniles fue similar por regin y sexo; sin embargo, adultos fueron ms pesados y ms largos en el sur en comparacin con el oeste.
3672327|The reticulate collared lizard (Crotaphytus reticulatus) is a large, crotaphytid lizard restricted to the lower Rio Grande Valley of southern Texas and northern Mexico. Our objectives were to determine the foraging mode of this species and test predictions made by other investigators about foraging behavior. We conducted focal observations on 10 male and 10 female lizards in Falcon State Park, Starr County, Texas, to quantify the number of movements per minute (MPM), the proportion of time spent moving (PTM), and the proportion of attacks made on prey items while moving (PAM). We removed foraging movements followed by social displays from the data and recalculated and reanalyzed foraging activity values. With "display" movements removed, there was a significant difference between MPM values and PTM values for males and for the sexed combined, but there was no significant difference in MPM values or PTM values for females. The foraging measures calculated for C. reticulatus, with and without "display" movements removed from the calculations, suggest that it is a "sit-and-wait" ambush forager like its congener C. collaris. /// La lagartija reticulada de collar (Crotaphytus reticulatus) es una lagartija grande restringida al valle bajo del Ro Bravo del sur de Texas y del norte de Mxico. Nuestros objectivos fueron determinar el modo de buscar comida y probar algunas hiptesis hechas por otros investigadores referentes al comportamiento de bsqueda de comida. Realizamos observaciones focales de 10 machos y 10 hembras de la especie en el Parque Estatal de Falcn, condado de Starr, Texas, para cuantificar el nmero de desplazamientos por minuto (MPM), la proporcin del tiempo utilizada desplazndose (PTM), y la proporcin de ataques a presas mientras se movan (PAM). Descartamos los desplazamientos seguidos de exhibiciones sociales de los datos y calculamos y analizamos nuevamente los valores de bsqueda de comida. Con estos desplazamientos removidos, hubo una diferencia significativa entre los valores de MPM y PTM para los machos y para ambos sexos juntos, pero no hubo una diferencia significativa de los valores ni de MPM o de PTM para las hembras. Las medidas de bsqueda de comida para C. reticulatus, con o sin los desplazamientos de "exhibicin," sugieren que es una especie que busca la comida por medio de emboscadas de "sentarse y esperar" como su congnere C. collaris.
3672328|Blood parasites have been known to cause morbidity and mortality in waterfowl, particularly in Canada geese (Branta canadensis). However, little is known about blood parasites infecting Ross' geese (Chen rossii) and greater white-fronted geese (Anser albifrons). This study examined wintering Ross' and white-fronted geese for blood parasites. Blood smears from 16 Ross' geese (13 juveniles, 3 adults) and 46 white-fronted geese (21 juveniles, 26 adults) collected in Kleberg County, Texas, during winter 1999-2000 were examined for blood parasites. Leucocytozoon simondi was found in 2 juvenile white-fronted geese; density of infection was <1 parasite/2,000 erythrocytes. Additionally, 3 adult and 1 juvenile white-fronted geese had microfilaria. No blood parasites were observed in Ross' geese. We concluded that low prevalence and density of L. simondi gametocytes circulating in host blood precluded or greatly reduced transmission of this parasite on the wintering grounds in southern Texas. /// Se sabe que los parsitos de sangre causan morbosidad y mortalidad en aves acuticas, particularmente en gansos canadienses (Branta canadensis). Sin embargo, se sabe muy poco sobre parsitos de sangre infectando gansos de Ross (Chen rossii) y gansos frente blanca (Anser albifrons). Este estudio examin gansos de Ross y gansos frente blanca durante el invierno para parsitos de sangre. Muestras de sangre de 16 gansos de Ross (13 juveniles, 3 adultos) y 46 gansos frente blanca (21 juveniles, 25 adultos) colectadas en el condado de Kleberg, Texas, durante el invierno de 1999-2000 fueron examinadas para parsitos de sangre. Se encontr Leucocytozoon simondi en 2 gansos frente blanca juveniles; la densidad de infeccin fue <1 parsito/2,000 eritrocitos. Adicionalmente, 3 gansos frente blanca adultos y 1 juvenil tenan microfilarios. No se observaron parsitos de sangre en ningn ganso de Ross. Concluimos que la baja frecuencia y densidad de gametocitos L. simondi circulando en la sangre de los ejemplares imposibilitan o grandemente reducen la transmisin de este parsito en los terrenos invernales del sur de Texas.
3672329|Changes in geographic distributions of 5 bird species endemic to the Great Plains of North America were examined over the last few decades based on the United States Breeding Bird Survey. Examining the mean latitude of individuals of each species, 3 species showed significant or near-significant northward shifts, and 1 a significant shift southward. Over all 5 species examined, colonization events were concentrated in the northern part of the distributions of the species; in 3 species, extinctions were concentrated in the southern part of the distributions of the species. The conclusion is that significant distributional changes have taken place, but they have been subtle, and might be associated with global climate change. /// Se examinaron los cambios en la distribucin geogrfica de 5 especies de aves en las Grandes Planicies de Norteamrica a travs de las ltimas dcadas con base a datos del United States Breeding Bird Survey. Examinando la latitud promedio de individuos de cada especie, 3 especies mostraron traslaciones significativas o casi-significativas hacia el norte, y 1 significativa hacia el sur. Para las 5 especies, colonizaciones se enfocaron en la parte nortea de las distribuciones de las especies, y en 3 especies las extinciones se enfocaron en la parte surea de sus distribuciones. La conclusin es que han habido cambios distribucionales significativos, pero sutiles, posiblemente asociados al cambio de clima global.
3672330|Breeding bird populations were studied in forests recently damaged by tornados and in adjacent undamaged forests in the Ozark National Forest, Arkansas. During 1999 and 2000, surveys were undertaken at 6 points in forest moderately damaged by a tornado in 1996 and at 6 points in nearby undamaged forest. An additional 18 counts, 6 each in undamaged, moderately damaged, and heavily damaged forest, were undertaken in 2000 in an area affected by a 1999 tornado. Typical forest species, such as red-eyed vireo and ovenbird, were significantly less abundant in tornado-damaged forest than in undamaged forests, while edge species, such as indigo bunting and white-eyed vireo, were more abundant in damaged forest than in undamaged forest. Surprisingly, abundances of some species, such as black-and-white warbler, did not differ significantly between damaged and undamaged forests. Species composition differed between heavily damaged forest and moderately damaged or undamaged forest, with a number of species occurring only in the heavily damaged forest type. The congeneric summer tanager and scarlet tanager seemed to show habitat segregation in the study sites, with summer tanagers occurring in tornadodamaged forest and scarlet tanagers occurring in undamaged forest. /// Muestreamos poblaciones de aves reproductivas en bosques recientemente afectados por tornados y en bosques adyacentes intactos en el Ozark Nacional Forest, Arkansas. Durante 1999 y 2000, realizamos conteos en 6 lugares moderadamente afectados por un tornado en 1996 y en 6 lugares cercanos en bosque intacto. Adems, en el 2000 realizamos 18 conteos adicionales, 6 en cada uno de bosque intacto, moderadamente afectado, y fuertemente afectado, en un rea daada por un tornado en 1999. Especies tpicas de bosque, como Vireo olivaceus y Seiurus aurocapillus, fueron significativamente menos abundantes en reas afectadas que en las no afectadas, mientras que especies de ecotonos, como Passerina cyanea y V. griseus, fueron ms abundantes en reas afectadas que en las no afectadas. Sorprendentemente, la abundancia de algunas especies, como Mniotilta varia, no difiri significativamente entre bosques daados y no daados. La composicin de especies difiri entre bosques muy daados y bosques moderadamente o no daados, con varias especies encontradas solamente en los bosques fuertemente daados. Dos especies congneres, Piranga olivacea y P. rubra parecieron mostrar segregacin de hbitat en los sitios de estudio, con P. rubra en bosques daados y P. olivacea en bosques no daados.
3672331|The worm-eating warbler (Helmitheros vermivorus) is a ground-dwelling neotropical migrant that typically breeds within large sloping forest patches. On 7 July 2000 at 07:36 CDT, a female H. vermivorus was captured at an agricultural ditch in Poinsett County, Arkansas. The warbler was aged as after hatching year (ASY) and had a fully developed brood patch with complete feather loss. This occurrence was unusual because it was outside the reported breeding range for this species and the warbler was in a small (3.52 ha) forest patch in a flat landscape. Observations of worm-eating warblers in alluvial areas of Arkansas occur during the migratory period, but are relatively rare. The timing of this summer observation, presence of a brood patch, and lack of fat deposition in the furcular cavity indicated a recent breeding attempt; however, this does not preclude a dispersing individual. In either case, closer monitoring in lowland habitats during breeding and post-breeding periods might provide additional knowledge on the conservation status and habitat needs of this species. /// El gorjeador o cerrojillo (Helmitheros vermivorus) es un pjaro migrante neotropical que vive principalmente en el suelo y se reproduce tpicamente en parches grandes de laderas boscosas. El 7 de julio del ao 2000, a las 07:36 horas (CST) capturamos una hembra H. vermivorus en una acequia de riego en el condado de Poinsett, Arkansas. Se determin que su edad era de un ao despus de la primera reproduccin (ASY) y present un parche incubador completamente desarrollado con la prdida completa de plumaje. Este evento fue singular porque se lo encontr fuera del rea de aparemiento habitual de esta especie y el pjaro se ubic en un parche pequeo (3.52 ha) de bosque plano. Se han observado a cerrojillos en reas fluviales de Arkansas durante el perodo de migracin, pero en muy pocas ocasiones. La poca de esta observacin veraniega, la presencia de un parche incubador, y la falta de depsitos grasos en la cavidad furcular indicaron un reciente intento reproductivo; sin embargo, esto no excluye la posibilidad de que se trate de un caso aislado. De todas maneras, observaciones ms minuciosas en hbitats de tierras bajas durante el perodo reproductivo y post-reproductivo pueden proveer conocimiento adicional sobre el estado de conservacin y las necesidades ambientales de esta especie.
3672332|On 1 August 2000, a house wren (Troglodytes aedon) was observed exhibiting intraspecific helping behavior. An unbanded individual was observed carrying a spider into and separately carrying a fecal sac from a nest box occupied by 2 color-banded adults. The feeding individual appeared to be a hatch-year bird using the aging criteria of tail-length, breast coloration, and rictus characteristics. There were no additional observations of feeding by any unbanded individuals during the 1-h sample or in 3 hourly samples over the next 3 days. It is not known if there was any genetic relationship between the house wrens occupying the nest box and the unbanded juvenile helper. /// El primero de agosto del ao 2000 se observ un saltapared cucarachero (Troglodytes aedon) mostrando un comportamiento de ayuda intraespecfica. Se observ a un individuo sin banda llevando una araa al nido y en otra ocasin sacando un saco fecal del nido ocupado por dos adultos marcados con bandas de color. El individuo que llev el alimento pareca ser un pjaro juvenil del ao de su eclosin, segn los criterios de longitud de cola, coloracin del pecho, y las caractersticas del ensanche del rictus del pico. No hubo observaciones adicionales de eventos de alimentacin por parte de individuos sin banda durante una muestra de 1 hora, ni en muestras de 3 horas en los siguientes 3 das. Se desconoce si hubo una relacin gentica entre los saltaparedes que ocupaban el nido y el juvenil sin banda que proporcion la ayuda.
3672333|We describe the first record of a loggerhead shrike (Lanius ludovicianus) impaling a bat. The eastern red bat specimen (Lasiurus borealis) was found at Anahuac National Wildlife Refuge (Chambers County, Texas) and was collected the following day. We describe the habitat at the site where the bat was impaled and discuss the rarity of this event. This is the first time we have observed an impaled bat during approximately 200 h of casual observation. The prey typically impaled are orthopterans (approximately one-half of all impaled prey), frogs and toads, crayfish, birds, and, to a lesser extent, reptiles and rodents. Approximately 7% of the prey were completely consumed, 35% partially consumed, and more than half were not consumed. /// Describimos el primer registro del verdugo Lanius ludovicianus clavando a un murcilago. Un espcimen del murcilago rojo del este  murcilago rojizo cola peluda (Lasiurus borealis) fue encontrado en Anahuac National Wildlife Refuge (condado de Chambers, Texas) y colectado el da siguiente. Describimos el hbitat del sitio donde fue clavado el murcilago y discutimos la rareza de este evento. Esta es la primera vez que hemos observado a un murcilago clavado en aproximadamente 200 h de observaciones casuales. Las presas tpicamente clavadas son ortpteras (aproximadamente la mitad de todas las presas clavadas), ranas y sapos, cangrejos, aves, y menos frecuente, reptiles y roedores. Aproximadamente el 7% de los artculos alimenticios fueron completamente consumidos, 35% parcialmente consumidos, y ms de la mitad no fueron consumidos.
3672334|Historically, black bears (Ursus americanus) occurred throughout the southern Great Plains, including Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas. However, due to habitat loss and human persecution, black bears were extirpated throughout this region by the early 1900s. We report on the recent range expansion of this species in the southwestern Great Plains, based on observations and records from state and federal agencies. Recent records of black bears, most of which exhibited the cinnamon color phase, suggest an established and reproducing population in Cimarron County, Oklahoma, that we estimate to consist of 20 individuals. This population apparently expanded from those in southeastern Colorado and northeastern New Mexico by the early 1980s and increased considerably during the 1990s. Today, black bears are reported annually from throughout Cimarron County. Dispersing young animals have increasingly wandered into Texas County, Oklahoma, and nearby areas of northwestern Texas and southwestern Kansas. Because black bears are protected in all 3 states and human densities are relatively low in this region, their range might continue to slowly expand. /// El oso negro (Ursus americanus) se distribua histricamente a travs del sur de las Grandes Planicies, incluyendo Kansas, Oklahoma, y Texas. Sin embargo, debido a la prdida de hbitat y la persecucin humana, el oso negro fue extirpado de esta regin a principios de 1900. Reportamos la reciente expansin en la distribucin de esta especie en el suroeste de las Grandes Planicies, basndonos en observaciones y registros de agencias estatales y federales. Recientes registros de osos negros, la mayora de los cuales presentan la fase de color canela, sugieren que existe una poblacin establecida y reproductiva en el condado de Cimarron, Oklahoma, la cual estimamos que consiste de 20 individuos. Aparentemente esta poblacin es una expansin proveniente del sureste de Colorado y del noreste de Nuevo Mxico a principios de la dcada de 1980 y se ha incrementado considerablemente durante la siguiente dcada. Actualmente se registran osos negros cada ao en el condado de Cimarron. Cada vez ms se han dispersado animales jvenes al condado de Texas, Oklahoma, y a reas cercanas del noroeste de Texas y suroeste de Kansas. Debido a que el oso negro est protegido en los 3 estados y las densidades humanas son relativamente bajas en esta regin, su distribucin podra continuar expandindose lentamente.
3672335|Because effects of flooding on small mammal populations are poorly understood, we examined small mammal response, measured by relative abundance and community diversity, to a flood in a regenerating bottomland hardwood forest. We trapped small mammals immediately prior to and 5 months following retreat of floodwaters in Yazoo County, Mississippi during 1994 and 1995. Cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus) and marsh rice rats (Oryzomys palustris) were the dominant species captured throughout the study, but abundance declined markedly after flooding and did not reach pre-flood abundance by the end of the study. Extended flood duration and depth were believed to have caused the disappearance of cotton mice (Peromyscus gossypinus) and a decrease in community diversity. /// Porque no se sabe mucho del efecto de las inundaciones sobre las poblaciones de mamferos pequeos, examinamos la respuesta de los mamferos pequeos, segn la abundancia relativa y la diversidad de la comunidad, a una inundacin en un bosque de madera dura en proceso de regeneracin de tierras bajas. Capturamos los mamferos pequeos inmediatamente antes de la inundacin y 5 meses despus del retiro de las aguas en el condado de Yazoo, Mississippi, en los aos 1994 y 1995. La rata algodonera (Sigmodon hispidus) y la rata arrocera (Oryzomys palustris) fueron las especies capturadas con mayor frecuencia. Su abundancia baj sumamente despus de la inundacin, y hasta el fin del estudio no se haba alcanzado la abundancia anterior. Se cree que las prolongadas inundaciones y la profundidad de las aguas causaron la desaparicin del ratn algodonero (Peromyscus gossypinus) y la disminucin de la diversidad de la comunidad.
3672336|We report the first record of Yucatan deer mouse, Peromyscus yucatanicus, in Guatemala. The Yucatan deer mouse was restricted to Yucatn Peninsula, where it is considered a common species in deciduous to semi-evergreen tropical forests, and secondary growth forests. Two Yucatan deer mice were collected at Laguna Flor de Luna, Laguna del Tigre National Park, Guatemala, on April 1999. This new record constitutes a range extension of 116 km south of the nearest previously known locality at Escrcega, Campeche, Mexico. /// Presentamos el primer registro de Peromyscus yucatanicus para Guatemala. La distribucin de esta especie era conocida slo en la Pennsula de Yucatn, donde es considerada comn en bosque tropical caducifolio y semicaducifolio, y tambin en bosques de crecimiento secundario. En abril del 1999, se capturaron dos ejemplares de Peromyscus yucatanicus en Laguna Flor de Luna, Parque Nacional Laguna del Tigre, Guatemala. Este nuevo registro ampla el rea de distribucin unos 116 km al sur de la localidad ms cercana registrada, o sea, Escrcega, Campeche, Mxico.
3672337|We made an intensive survey of small mammals in the Sierra Norte de Oaxaca region, in Oaxaca, Mxico. We recorded the presence of 2 interesting species: water mouse (Rheomys mexicanus) and river otter (Lontra longicaudis annectens). The locality for the river otter represented the highest altitude recorded in Mxico for this species. The locality for the water mouse is the fourth known in all of its range and the second record in Sierra Norte. /// A partir de un muestreo de campo intensivo de mamferos pequeos en la regin conocida como Sierra Norte, en el estado de Oaxaca, Mxico, se registr la presencia de 2 species interesantes: el ratn acutico (Rheomys mexicanus) y la nutria de ro (Lontra longicaudis annectens). La localidad en que ocurri la nutria de ro representa la mayor altitud para esta especie en Mxico, mientras que la localidad del ratn acutico representa la cuarta localidad conocida en toda su distribucin y la segunda en la Sierra Norte.
3672875|Flowering and fruiting phenology of Acacia berlandieri, A. minuata, A. rigidula, A. schaffneri, and Chloroleucon ebano were studied at 3 sites in the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas from July 1998 through August 1999. Severe drought conditions prevailed for the 6 months preceding this study, and rainfall was 20% lower during the study than the long-term mean. Acacia berlandieri had the longest flowering period (5 months); each of the other 3 Acacia species flowered for 3 months. All of the Acacia species flowered in winter or spring (at relatively low temperatures and increasing photoperiod). Peak flowering occurred in February in A. berlandieri, A. rigidula, and A. schaffneri. Peak flowering occurred in March in Acacia minuata. There was significant variation in percent flowering among months within A. minuata, A. rigidula, and A. schaffneri. Significant variation in percent flowering occurred among species during February, March, and April. Chloroleucon ebano flowered in only 1 month (September) following heavy rain. All of the Acacia species dropped their fruit before new fruit were developed, but C. ebano had mature fruit from the previous year and developing fruit on the same individuals. Few shrubs or trees of any species had fruit from November through April. There were significant differences in percentage of individuals with mature fruit among species in most months, and there was significant variation in percentage of shrubs and trees with mature fruit among sites within species. Acacia minuata and A. schaffneri showed significant positive correlations between percent fruiting and photoperiod and temperature. We suggest C. ebano flowers at higher temperatures than the Acacia species and at peak or declining photoperiod rather than during increasing photoperiod. /// La floracin y fructificacin de Acacia berlandieri, A. minuata, A. rigidula, A. schaffneri y Chloroleucon ebano se estudiaron en 3 sitios del Valle del Ro Bravo de Texas durante julio de 1998 hasta agosto de 1999. Condiciones severas de sequa se presentaron 6 meses antes de la investigacin y durante el estudio la lluvia fue 20% menos que el promedio de precipitacin a largo plazo. Acacia berlandieri tuvo el perodo de floracin ms prolongado (5 meses); las otras 3 especies de Acacia florecieron durante 3 meses. Todas las especies de Acacia florecieron en el invierno y en la primavera (en temperaturas relativamente bajas y en fotoperodos crecientes). La mxima floracin se efectu en febrero en A. berlandieri, A. rigidula y A. schaffneri. La mxima floracin de A. minuata fue en marzo. Hubo una diferencia significativa en la proporcin de floracin entre meses en A. minuata, A. rigidula y A. schaffneri, y una diferencia significativa en la proporcin de floracin entre especies en febrero, marzo y abril. Chloroleucon ebano floreci solamente en septiembre despus de una abundante lluvia. Todas las especies de Acacia desprendieron su fruta antes del desarrollo de nueva fruta, pero C. ebano tena fruta madura del ao anterior junto con fruta desarrollndose en los mismos individuos. Pocos arbustos o rboles de cualquiera de las especies fructificaron desde noviembre hasta abril. Hubo diferencias significativas en el porcentaje de plantas con frutas maduras entre especies en la mayora de los meses y variacin significativa del porcentaje de plantas con frutas maduras dentro de especies entre sitios. Acacia minuata y A. schaffneri ensearon correlaciones positivas y significativas entre el porcentaje de fructificacin, fotoperodo y temperatura. Sugerimos que C. ebano florece a temperaturas ms elevadas que las especies de Acacia y en el punto mximo del fotoperodo o cuando decrece en lugar del fotoperodo creciente.
3672876|The freshwater unionoid mussel Popenaias popeii is restricted to river drainages of the Gulf of Mexico in southwestern North America. Previously, this species has been classified as both a short-term and long-term larval brooder based on limited data. Histological analysis of gonadal tissue from specimens collected in New Mexico indicated gonochoric individuals; hermaphroditism was not observed in any specimens. Although male and female gametes were present for almost the entire year, gonadal activity appeared lowest in October and November, when tissue recovery and reorganization were more evident than gametogenesis. Gravid females were observed from March through August, with all stages of embryos and larvae present on every sampling date during this period. Non-gravid females always were present, even if they contained active gonads. Contrary to previous reports, P. popeii is considered an asynchronous short-term brooder with an extended period (late winter to mid-summer) of oviposition. A small percentage of gravid females used posterior portions of inner demibranchs as marsupia. This character suggests that inner demibranchs might function in a facultative capacity as an overflow reservoir for larvae unable to fit into full marsupia of the specialized outer demibranchs. /// El mejilln unionoido de agua dulce Popenaias popeii se restringe a las cuencas del Golfo de Mxico del suroeste de Norteamrica. Anteriormente, esta especie ha sido clasificada como una incubadora de larvas a corto y largo plazo segn informacin limitada. Anlisis histolgico del tejido gnado de especimenes de Nuevo Mxico indic individuos gonocricos; el hermafrodismo no fue observado en ningn espcimen. Aunque gametos masculinos y femeninos estuvieron presentes por casi el ao entero, la actividad gondica apareci ms baja durante octubre y noviembre, cuando la recuperacin y reorganizacin del tejido fueron ms evidentes que la gametognesis. Hembras grvidas fueron observadas de marzo a agosto, con todos los estadios de embriones y larvas presentes en cada fecha del muestreo de este perodo. Hembras no grvidas siempre estuvieron presentes aun cuando contenan gnadas activas. Contrario a los antecedentes, P. popeii se considera una incubadora asincrnica de corto plazo con un perodo prolongado (desde el fin del invierno hasta el medio del verano) de ovoposicin. Un porcentaje pequeo de las hembras grvidas utiliz partes posteriores de los demibrancos interiores como marsupia. Este carcter sugiere que los demibrancos interiores juegan un papel facultativo como una reserva auxiliar para las larvas incapaces de encajarse a las marsupias llenas de los demibrancos especializados exteriores.
3672877|We examined seasonal and spatial distribution of all life stages of the diminutive cyclopoid copepod Tropocyclops prasinus mexicanus in 2 years in the nearly thermally constant environment of Montezuma Well, Arizona, USA. Although annual temperatures remained relatively constant (21  4C), densities of T. prasinus mexicanus displayed a bimodal pattern, with highest densities during the summer and winter. Also, the vertical water column was nearly homeothermal, but all life stages avoided the top 2 m of the water column during clear summer days and utilized this stratum during the winter when light was reduced. Females within the population were eggbearing throughout the entire year, which led to high annual mean densities (>200 animals/L). Mean annual biomass of T. prasinus mexicanus was estimated at 50 g/L. /// Se examin la distribucin estacional y espacial de las distintas etapas de vida del coppodo diminuto, Tropocyclops prasinus mexicanus, durante 2 aos en el medio ambiente casi constante termalmente del pozo Montezuma Well, Arizona, USA. Aunque las temperaturas anuales permanecieron relativamente constantes (21  4C), las densidades de T. prasinus mexicanus presentaron un patrn bimodal con densidades ms elevadas durante el verano y el invierno. Adems, la columna vertical de agua era casi homeotermal, sin embargo todas las etapas de vida evitaron los 2 m superiores de la columna de agua durante los das despejados del verano y utilizaron este estrato durante el invierno cuando la luz estaba disminuida. Las hembras estuvieron grvidas durante todo el ao, el cual precedi elevadas densidades medias anuales (>200 animales/L). El promedio de biomasa anual de T. prasinus mexicanus se estim en 50 g/L.
3672878|We surveyed the amphibians and reptiles of the Whetstone Mountains in southeastern Arizona using a combination of intensive small-area plots, extensive walking searches, trap arrays, road-driving, spot checks, and review of previous records. We found 43 species within the National Forest boundary and within 1 mile of the boundary. Composition of the herpetofauna is typically Madrean and included 5 anuran, 2 turtle, 21 lizard, and 14 snake species. Previous records from the study area documented only 15 species. Quantitative results of intensive and extensive searches provide additional baseline data that could be used for future monitoring efforts. /// Se realiz un muestreo de los anfibios y reptiles de las Montaas Whetstone en el sudeste de Arizona utilizando una combinacin de revisin intensiva de parcelas pequeas, bsquedas extensivas al caminar, matrices de trampas, bsqueda desde un vehculo, muestras hechas al azar, y revisin de registros anteriores. Se encontraron 43 especies dentro de los lmites del Bosque Nacional y en 1 milla fuera del lmite. La composicin de la herpetofauna es Madrense tpica e incluy 5 especies de anuros, 2 de tortugas, 21 de lagartijas, y 14 de culebras. Registros anteriores del rea de estudio documentaron solamente 15 especies. Los resultados cuantitativos de muestreos intensos y extensos proporcionan datos adicionales de referencia que pueden ser tiles en monitoreos en el futuro.
3672879|White-faced ibises (Plegadis chihi) nesting in Arizona in 2000 exhibited extreme eggshell thinning and possible reproductive failure associated with high egg residues of DDE. A small colony of approximately 75 pairs nested relatively late in the season, and egg laying occurred from about June 15 to June 29. Average clutch size in 19 marked nests was 2.5, which was low compared to that reported for most other ibis populations. Hatching success was 43% (13 of 30 eggs remaining in active nests). The geometric mean DDE egg residue (2.23 g/g wet weight) was similar to those reported in other ibis populations where DDE-induced shell thinning adversely affected reproductive success. Two of 16 eggs collected from marked nests had a flexible shell that easily indented with slight finger pressure. Overall mean eggshell thickness of 23 eggs was 0.264 mm, 15% thinner than shells of museum eggs collected before the widespread use of DDT. Only 1 of 23 eggs contained mercury at potentially harmful concentrations (>2.5 g/g dry weight). Selenium in 74% of the eggs exceeded background concentrations (<3.0 g/g dry weight), but none exceeded the toxic threshold (>8.0 g/g dry weight). /// Los ibis cariblancos (Plegadis chihi) anidando en Arizona en el ao 2000 demostraron un adelgazamiento extremo del cascarn del huevo y posiblemente fracasaron en su reproduccin debido a concentraciones elevadas de DDE en el huevo. Una colonia pequea de aproximadamente 75 parejas anid relativamente tarde en la temporada y la temporada y la postura de huevos ocurri aproximadamente del 15 al 29 de junio. El promedio de huevos por nido fue de 2.5 en 19 nidos marcados, lo cual fue bajo comparado con lo registrado en la mayora de otras poblaciones de ibis. El exito de empollamento fue 43% (13 de 30 huevos que permanecieron en nidos activos). La concentracin media geomtrica de DDE en el huevo (2.23 g/g peso hmedo) fue similar a las registradas en otras poblaciones de ibis en las que el adelgazamiento del cascarn inducido por DDE baj el xito reproductivo. Dos de 16 huevos colectados de los nidos marcados tuvieron un cascarn flexible que se hunda fcilmente con una ligera presin del dedo. En general, la media geomtrica del espesor de la cscara de 23 huevos fue 0.264 mm, 15% ms delgada que cascarones de huevos en museos colectados antes del uso a gran escala de DDT. Slo 1 de 23 huevos tuvo concentraciones de mercurio potencialmente dainas (>2.5 g/g peso seco). El selenio excedi concentraciones normales (<3.0 g/g peso seco) en 79% de los huevos, pero ninguno excedi el lmite de toxicidad (>8.0 g/g peso seco).
3672880|Data from neck-band observations were used to determine breeding-ground affiliation, period of use, and winter movement patterns of greater white-fronted geese (Anser albifrons frontalis) observed in the Winchester Lakes region of northwestern Texas. Over 1,265 observations of nearly 800 individual neck-banded geese (3.2% of all neck-banded white-fronted geese in North America) were recorded in the region from 1988 through 1996. More than 4,200 observations of these individuals were recorded throughout North America. Observations peaked in November and February, indicating that the Winchester Lakes region is a migratory staging area for whitefronted geese. Only 6% of the birds in this region remained throughout the winter. Most birds staging in the Winchester Lakes region wintered in the rice prairies of coastal Texas and interior Mexico. Eighty-eight percent of the neck-banded geese were from the western portion of the midcontinent population of greater white-fronted geese, primarily representing Interior-Northwest Alaska, Yukon, and Anderson River breeding populations. These breeding populations are characterized by declining trends in population size and survival rates. The status (e.g., population trends, productivity, survival) of these breeding populations must be considered when managing birds in the Winchester Lakes region. /// Para determinar la afiliacin con lugares de reproduccin, uso temporal, y patrones de desplazamiento invernal, se analizaron observaciones del ganso frente blanca (Anser albifrons frontalis), con collares, en la regin de los lagos Winchester del noroeste de Texas. En esta regin entre 1988 y 1996, se registraron ms de 1,265 observaciones de casi 800 gansos con collares (3.2% de todos los gansos frente blanca con collares en Norteamrica). Ms de 4,200 observaciones de estos individuos fueron registradas a travs de Norteamrica. Las observaciones alcanzaron su mximo en noviembre y febrero, indicando que la regin de los lagos Winchester es un rea de estada migratoria para el ganso frente blanca. Slo 6% de estas aves permaneci en la regin a travs del invierno. La mayora de las aves que se qued en la regin de los lagos Winchester invern en las praderas de arroz de la costa de Texas y en el interior de Mxico. Ochenta y ocho por ciento de los gansos frente blanca con collares procedi de la zona oeste de la poblacin mediocontinental de esta especie, los que representan principalmente el noroeste e interior de Alaska, Yukon, y las poblaciones reproductivas del Ro Anderson. Estas poblaciones reproductivas estn caracterizadas por tendencias decrecientes del tamao poblacional y de las tasas de sobrevivencia. El estado (o sea, la tendencia poblacional, la productividad, la sobrevivencia) de estas poblaciones reproductivas debe ser considerado al manejar estas poblaciones en la regin de los lagos Winchester.
3672881|In central New Mexico, breeding populations of Bewick's wren (Thryomanes bewickii) recently colonized riparian forests of the Middle Rio Grande and have increased rapidly to become the sixth most abundant breeding bird species in bosque habitats. In 1997-1998, I studied the potential roles that cottonwood forest succession and alien plant species invasion might have had in facilitating this change in the distribution of the wren. Habitat preference and nest cavity limitation were examined at 12 sites near Albuquerque, New Mexico. Bewick's wrens nested only in native tree species, especially large cottonwoods (Populus deltoides). Territories defended by males had greater coverage of mature cottonwood and lower amounts of open, early successional habitats than areas not occupied by wrens. Analysis of wren abundance data from 70 sites throughout the Middle Rio Grande found wren abundance to be highest at sites dominated by cottonwoods, especially at sites having alien salt cedar (Tamarix chinensis) understories. However, at sites dominated by alien plant species, Bewick's wren abundance was low. When the number of suitable nest cavities was experimentally increased through provision of nest boxes, wren abundance increased and their distribution expanded, suggesting nestsite availability was a limiting factor in this population. The mature, even-aged cottonwood populations established around 1950 currently provide suitable conditions for breeding Bewick's wrens. However, the remarkable speed at which this species has increased suggests that other population factors might have affected its distribution and abundance. /// En la parte central de Nuevo Mxico, poblaciones reproductivas del saltapared tapetatero (Thryomanes bewickii) recientemente han colonizado el bosque ribereo de la parte media del Ro Grande y se han incrementado tan rpido que son ahora la sexta ave ms abundante reproducindose en este lugar. De 1997 a 1998 estudi el papel potencial que juegan la sucesin del bosque de lamo (Populus deltoides) y la invasin por especies de plantas exticas en facilitar este cambio en la distribucin de T. bewickii. Se examinaron la preferencia de hbitat y las limitaciones de cavidades para nidos en 12 sitios cerca de Alburquerque, Nuevo Mxico. Thryomanes bewickii anid solamente en rboles nativos, especialmente en lamos de gran tamao. Los territorios defendidos por los machos tenan ms cobertura de lamos maduros, pocas reas abiertas y menos reas con sucesin primaria que las reas no ocupadas por T. bewickii. El anlisis de abundancia de T. bewickii en 70 sitios en la parte media del Ro Grande demostr mayor abundancia de T. bewickii en sitios dominados por lamos, especialmente en los con un sotobosque de pinabete (Tamarix chinensis). Pero, la abundancia de T. bewickii fue baja en sitios dominados por plantas exticas. Cuando el nmero de cavidades para nidos se increment experimentalmente por la provisin de nidales, la abundancia y distribucin de T. bewickii se incrementaron, sugiriendo que la baja disponibilidad de sitios para nidos fue un factor limitante para la poblacin. La maduracin de lamos coetneos de una poblacin establecida ms o menos en 1950 actualmente ofrece condiciones favorables para la reproduccin de T. bewickii. Sin embargo, la gran velocidad de incremento de esta especie sugiere que otros factores poblacionales pueden estar afectando su distribucin y abundancia.
3672882|From mid-May through July, 1992 to 1998, we searched for black-headed grosbeak (Pheucticus melanocephalus) nests in riparian and Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii) pastures in La Plata County, Colorado. Twenty-six nests (63%) were successful in fledging at least 1 young, and 15 nests (37%) failed because of predation. The mean number of grosbeaks hatched and fledged per nest did not differ between riparian pastures and oak pastures. The proportion of nests depredated in riparian pastures (10/25, 40%) and oak pastures (5/17, 29%) did not differ significantly. Mortality rates did not differ between habitats during the incubation stage (riparian: 0.056 nests/day; oak: 0.046 nests/day) or during the nestling stage (riparian: 0.011 nests/day; oak: 0.0 nests/day). Mean nest height did not differ between depredated nests and successful nests in either riparian pastures or oak pastures. /// De mediados de mayo a julio de 1992 a 1998, buscamos nidos del tigrillo (Pheucticus melanocephalus) en pastizales ribereos y del encino Quercus gambelii en el condado La Plata, estado de Colorado, USA. Veintisis nidos (63%) fueron exitosos en producir por lo menos 1 volantn, y 15 nidos (37%) fracasaron debido a la depredacin. El nmero promedio de P. melanocephalus que eclosion y vol no difiri entre nidos en pastizales ribereos y nidos en pastizales encinales. A pesar de que ms nidos fueron vctimas de la depredacin en pastizales ribereos (10/25, 40%), que en los de encino (5/17, 29%), la diferencia no fue significativa. La tasa de mortandad no difiri entre hbitats durante el perodo de incubacin (ribereo: 0.056 nidos/da; encinal: 0.046 nidos/da) o durante la etapa de anidacin (ribereo: 0.011 nidos/da; encinal: 0.0 nidos/da). La altura promedio de nido no difiri entre nidos depredados y los exitosos ni en pastizales ribereos o en pastizales encinales.
3672883|The ferruginous pygmy-owl (Glaucidium brasilianum) has a wide geographic range centered on the Neotropics. At the northern edge of its distribution, 1 subspecies, the cactus ferruginous pygmy-owl (G. b. cactorum) reaches Texas and Arizona. However, in both states it has experienced important range and population declines. In Arizona in particular, the owl was originally described as common along several rivers and streams. There were many specimens collected and the subspecies was often mentioned in ornithological publications. Today, the cactus ferruginous pygmy-owl is found in low numbers in Arizona, and since 1997, it has been federally listed as endangered in that state. Determining when and why this owl began to decline sharply in numbers and range in Arizona has proven difficult. In retrospect, inadequate information apparently led to a lapse of several decades between the actual change in the population status and its recognition by ornithologists. Here we examine the most complete list of cactus ferruginous pygmy-owl records to date, including unpublished specimen collection records. Collectively, these records strongly suggest that a severe downward population trend began as early as the 1920s, not the 1950s, as is commonly reported in the literature. Using our revised time frame and the history of the cactus ferruginous pygmy-owl in Texas, we also examine possible reasons for the occurrence of the decline. The best information available might indicate a combination of biogeographic and human-related factors. /// El tecolote bajeo (Glaucidium brasilianum) est ampliamente distribuido en el hemisferio occidental con una mayor afinidad a la zona neotropical. En el lmite septentrional de su distribucin, la subespecie G. b. cactorum llega hasta los estados de Arizona y Texas. Sin embargo, en ambos estados ha sufrido una disminucin apreciable de su tamao poblacional y de su rea geogrfica de distribucin. En Arizona especficamente, este tecolote era reconocido como abundante en regiones ribereas (ros y riachuelos). Se colectaron muchos ejemplares y la subespecie fue frecuentemente mencionada en publicaciones ornitolgicas. Hoy en da, se encuentra en nmeros reducidos en Arizona, y en 1997 el gobierno federal la declar en peligro de extincin en ese estado. Averiguar cuando y por qu esta subespecie empez a disminuir abruptamente en nmeros y en rango geogrfico ha sido difcil. Es posible que la falta de informacin adecuada haya sido la razn por la que aparentemente existe un lapso de varias dcadas entre el momento en que su estatus poblacional estaba cambiando y cuando se dieron cuenta los ornitlogos. En este artculo examinamos los registros de distribucin ms completos de la subespecie hasta la fecha, incluyendo varios no publicados. En conjunto, estos registros fuertemente sugieren que una grave disminucin poblacional empez en la dcada de 1920 y no en la de 1950 como se haba reportado hasta ahora. Usando esta cronografa revisada y la historia de la subespecie en Texas, examinamos tambin las posibles causas por su disminucin. La mejor informacin disponible suele indicar una combinacin de factores biogeogrficos y antropognicos.
3672884|A right femur (KCSP-128) from late Pleistocene deposits (ca. 36,210 yr B.P.; Rancholabrean) in Kartchner Caverns State Park, southeastern Arizona, is identified as the larger-than-modern roadrunner, Geococcyx californianus conklingi. This large form is best known from late Pleistocene localities in New Mexico and Nuevo Leon, as well as from assumed mixed late Pleistocene/Holocene deposits from New Mexico, Texas, and Chihuahua. It has never been reported from Arizona. Fossils of the modern-sized form, Geococcyx californianus californianus, have been reported from late Pleistocene localities in California and New Mexico, and from mixed late Pleistocene/Holocene deposits in Chihuahua. Comparisons of the Kartchner Caverns specimen to modern G. c. californianus specimens, and to published data of fossil G. c. californianus and G. c. conklingi, indicate KCSP-128 is relatively larger than the G. c. conklingi data and notably larger than G. c. californianus. KCSP-128 is added to the Rancholabrean record as the first late Pleistocene roadrunner reported from Arizona. /// Un fsil de depsitos tardos del Pleistoceno (ca. 36,210 aos antes de la era presente; Rancholabrean) en el parque estatal de las cavernas Kartchner en el sureste de Arizona ha sido identificado a partir de un fmur derecho (KCSP-128) como un correcaminos Geococcyx californianus conklingi. Esta forma extinta de gran tamao se identifica principalmente en sitios en Nuevo Mxico y Nuevo Len, as como de posibles depsitos mezclados Pleistoceno/Holoceno de Nuevo Mxico, Texas y Chihuahua. Nunca ha sido reportado en Arizona. Fsiles de tamao del moderno Geococcyx californianus californianus han sido registrados del Pleistoceno tardo en California y Nuevo Mxico y de depsitos mezclados del Pleistoceno tardo/Holoceno en Chihuahua. Las comparaciones de KCSP-128 a especmenes de G. c. californianus modernos y datos publicados sobre fsiles de G. c. californianus y G. c. conklingi indican que el KCSP-128 es relativamente de mayor tamao que G. c. conklingi y notablemente ms grande que G. c. californianus. KCSP-128 ha sido aadido al record de Rancholabrean como el primer correcaminos del Pleistoceno tardo reportado en Arizona.
3672885|High densities of an aridland granivore, Ord's kangaroo rat (Dipodomys ordii), have been documented in floodplain habitats along the Yampa River in northwestern Colorado. Despite a high probability of inundation and attendant high mortality during the spring flood period, the habitat is consistently recolonized. To understand factors that potentially make riparian habitats attractive to D. ordii, we compared density and spatial pattern of seeds, density of a competitor (western harvester ant, Pogonomyrmex occidentalis), and digging energetics within floodplain habitats and between floodplain and adjacent upland habitats. Seed density within the floodplain was greatest in the topographically high (rarely flooded) floodplain and lowest immediately after a spring flood in the topographically low (frequently flooded) floodplain. Seed densities in adjacent upland habitat that never floods were higher than the lowest floodplain habitat. In the low floodplain prior to flooding, seeds had a clumped spatial pattern, which D. ordii is adept at exploiting; after spring flooding, a more random pattern resulted. Populations of the western harvester ant were low in the floodplain relative to the upland. Digging by D. ordii was energetically less expensive in floodplain areas than in upland areas. Despite the potential for mortality due to annual spring flooding, the combination of less competition from harvester ants and lower energetic costs of digging might promote the use of floodplain habitat by D. ordii. /// Altas densidades de un granvoro de tierra rida, la rata canguro de Ord (Dipodomys ordii), han sido documentadas en el hbitat de lechos de inundacin a lo largo del RoYampa en el noroeste de Colorado. A pesar de una alta probabilidad de inundacin y as una alta taza de mortalidad durante la temporada de inundaciones primaverales, el hbitat se recoloniza consistentemente. Para comprender los factores que potencialmente hacen los hbitats ribereos atractivos a D. ordii, comparamos densidades y patrones espaciales de semillas, la densidad de un competidor (la hormiga Pogonomyrmex occidentalis), y el costo energtico para excavar dentro de los hbitats del lecho de inundacin, y entre lechos de inundacin y los hbitats contiguos de tierra alta. La densidad de semillas dentro del lecho de inundacin fue mayor en la parte topogrficamente ms alta (raramente inundada) y fue menor inmediatamente despus de una inundacin primaveral en la parte topogrficamente baja (frecuentemente inundada). Las densidades de semillas en hbitats de tierras altas adyacentes que nunca se inundan fueron ms altas que las de los hbitats de lechos de inundacin ms bajos. En el bajo lecho de inundacin antes de inundaciones, las semillas tenan un patrn espacial agrupado, el cual D. ordii es muy apta en explotar; despus de inundaciones primaverales, se observ un patrn ms al azar. Las poblaciones de la hormiga P. occidentalis fueron bajas en el lecho de inundacin en relacin con las tierras altas. Excavar de parte de D. ordii fue energticamente menos costoso en lechos de inundacin que en las tierras altas. A pesar del potencial de mortalidad a causa de inundaciones primaverales anuales, la combinacin de menos competencia de las hormigas P. occidentalis y menos costos energticos de excavar puede promover el uso del hbitat del lecho de inundacin por D. ordii.
3672886|We examined effects of the exotic fire ant Solenopsis invicta on habitat use by hispid cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus) and northern pygmy mice (Baiomys taylori) over a 17-month period in an open grassland community in central Texas. We divided the study area into 10 adjacent plots. Five alternating plots were treated with an ant-toxic bait to reduce density of S. invicta. The remaining 5 plots were left untreated. We trapped small mammals monthly and calculated capture per unit effort (CPUE) for each small mammal species in each of 3 treatments (treated, untreated, border) each month. Trap months were partitioned into 2 seasons, summer and winter. Sigmodon hispidus altered habitat use, as indicated by CPUE, in the presence of S. invicta during summer, and B. taylori did not alter habitat use in the presence of fire ants during either season. /// Se examin el efecto que tiene la hormiga extica Solenopsis invicta sobre el uso del hbitat de los mamferos pequeos, Sigmodon hispidus y Baiomys taylori. El estudio se llev a cabo en una comunidad de pastizal en el centro de Texas durante 17 meses. Se dividi el rea de estudio en 10 secciones adyacentes. En 5 secciones alternadas se coloc cebo txico para hormigas para reducir el nmero de S. invicta, mientras que las 5 secciones restantes se quedaron sin tratamiento. Se atraparon roedores cada mes y se calcul la captura por unidad de esfuerzo (CPUE) para cada especie de roedor en cada uno de los 3 tratamientos (tratado, no tratado y orilla) para cada mes. Los meses de muestreo se dividieron en 2 estaciones, el verano y el invierno. Los resultados de CPUE indicaron que Sigmodon hispidus cambi su uso de hbitat en presencia de S. invicta durante el verano y que B. taylori no cambi su uso del hbitat en presencia de S. invicta durante ninguna estacin.
3672887|Northern grasshopper mice (Onychomys leucogaster) were sampled periodically from June 1977 to November 1986 in the mixed-grass prairie region of north-central Kansas. Necropsies were performed on 175 mice to assess number of pregnancies and litter size for females and testis size for males. Fourteen of 87 females were pregnant with the earliest and latest dates of captures of pregnant females on 22 March and 18 August, respectively. The proportion of pregnant females peaked during May-June. The average number of fetuses was 4.0 (range: 2 to 5), and number of fetuses was correlated positively with body length of the mother. Testes of large males (110 mm) increased in size from January to August, and then rapidly regressed through October, whereas smaller males either exhibited a high degree of variability in testes size or had relatively small testes throughout this period. Temporal patterns for pregnancies and testis size suggested that the reproductive cycle for northern grasshopper mice in north-central Kansas was unimodal, and reproductive activity was greatest in late spring to mid-summer. /// Muestras de ratones saltamontes del norte (Onychomys leucogaster) fueron tomadas peridicamente desde junio de 1977 hasta noviembre de 1986 en la pradera de grama mixta de la regin centro-norte de Kansas. Necropsias fueron practicadas en 175 ratones para averiguar el nmero de embarazos y tamao de la camada para las hembras y el tamao de los testculos para los machos. Catorce de las 87 hembras estaban preadas, con las fechas de captura ms tempranas y tardas de las hembras preadas del 22 de marzo y del 18 de agosto, respectivamente. La proporcin de hembras preadas alcanz su nivel mximo durante mayo y junio. El nmero promedio de fetos fue 4.0 (rango 2 a 5), y el nmero de fetos tuvo una correlacin positiva con la longitud corporal de la madre. Los testculos de machos grandes (110 mm) aumentaron en tamao desde enero hasta agosto y despus disminuyeron rpidamente durante octubre, mientras machos menores o mostraron un nivel de variabilidad alta en el tamao de los testculos o tuvieron testculos relativamente pequeos durante este perodo. Patrones temporales de embarazos y tamao de testculos sugieren que el ciclo reproductivo de ratones saltamontes del norte en la zona centro-norte de Kansas fue unimodal, y la actividad reproductiva fue mayor de fines de la primavera hasta mediados del verano.
3672888|Kit foxes (Vulpes macrotis) are socially monogamous and live in male-female pairs or small family groups. These small desert foxes are nocturnal and spend the day in an underground den. Mated pairs often shared the same den on the same day. However, on days when they did not share the same den, mated pairs did not occupy dens that were closer together (or farther apart) than expected by chance. Closely related foxes on adjacent home ranges also occasionally shared dens. However, foxes living on adjacent home ranges, even when closely related, also did not occupy dens that were closer together or farther apart than expected by chance. /// Las zorritas del desierto (Vulpes macrotis) son socialmente mongamas y viven en parejas de macho-hembra o en pequeos grupos familiares. Estas pequeas zorritas del desierto son nocturnas y pasan el da bajo suelo dentro de sus madrigueras. Parejas apareadas compartieron con frecuencia la misma madriguera durante el mismo da. Sin embargo, en los das cuando no compartieron la misma madriguera, las parejas apareadas se distribuyeron en forma aleatoria, es decir sus madrigueras no estuvieron ni ms cercanas ni ms lejanas de lo que se esperaba al azar. Las zorritas que estn cercanamente emparentadas y que viven en rangos de hogar adyacentes ocasionalmente tambin compartieron la misma madriguera. Sin embargo, estas zorritas que viven en rangos de hogar adyacentes, aun cuando estn cercanamente emparentadas, tampoco ocuparon madrigueras ms cercanas ni ms lejanas de lo que se esperaba al azar.
3672889|The original descriptions of the bats Sturnira lilium lilium and S. l. parvidens are general and fragmented. Therefore, we provide standardized redescriptions of the type specimens, as well as external and cranial measurements, to clarify differences between the types and to provide information that will allow for better recognition of specimens of S. l. parvidens and S. l. lilium. The skulls of both type specimens are partially broken and incomplete. In S. l. parvidens the skull and braincase are smaller than in S. l. lilium, and the inner upper incisors are bilobed with the internal lobule larger, while in S. l. lilium the upper incisors are pointed with a single lobe. The measurements of the forearm, tibia, maxillary toothrow, greatest breadth across the upper molars, least postorbital breadth, and greatest breadth across the canines are smaller in the specimen of S. l. parvidens. /// Las descripciones originales de los murcilagos Sturnira lilium lilium y S. l. parvidens son generales e incompletas. Con la finalidad de conocer mejor las diferencias entre los tipos y reconocer mejor a los especmenes de S. l. parvidens y S. l. lilium, se hace una redescripcin estandarizada de los especmenes tipo y se aportan medidas externas y craneales. Ambos especmenes tipo de las dos subespecies tienen los crneos parcialmente rotos e incompletos. En S. l. parvidens, el crneo y la caja craneal son ms pequeos que en S. l. lilium, y los incisivos superiores internos son bilobados, con el lbulo interno ms grande; mientras que en S. l. lilium los incisivos superiores son puntiagudos y unicspides. Las medidas del antebrazo, tibia, hilera maxilar de dientes, anchura mayor a travs de los molares superiores, constriccin menor postorbitaria, y anchura mayor a travs de los caninos son ms pequeas en el especmen de S. l. parvidens.
3672890|More than 60 fossil achenes of Eleofimbris svensonii (Cyperaceae) were recovered from strata in Scott County, Kansas tentatively assigned to the late Miocene Ash Hollow Formation. This collection extends the temporal range of the taxon in this formation more than 130 km west and 20 km south and more than doubles the number of specimens available for study. /// Ms de 60 aquenios fsiles del Eleofimbris svensonii (Cyperaceae) fueron recogidos de los estratos asignados tentativamente a la formacin Ash Hollow del Mioceno tardo en el condado de Scott, Kansas. Esta coleccin prolonga el rango temporal del taxn en esta formacin ms de 130 km al oeste y 20 km al sur y aumenta ms de dos veces el nmero de los especmenes disponibles para el estudio.
3672891|Previously, no Odonata have been reported from 44 Texas counties (17%), mainly from the northern Panhandle. Adult dragonflies and damselflies collected since September of 1999 are reported from 24 sites in 14 counties throughout the Texas Panhandle. A total of 35 species is discussed, representing 73 new county records and 4 new state records. First records of Odonata are included for 6 counties. /// Previamente, no se ha sealado ningn registro del grupo Odonata en 44 condados de Texas (17%), principalmente en el noroeste del estado. Adultos de las liblulas (Anisoptera y Zygoptera) recogidos desde septiembre de 1999 estn sealados de 24 sitios en 14 condados a travs del noroeste de Texas. Un total de 35 especies se discute, representando 73 registros nuevos para los condados y 4 registros nuevos para el estado. Los primeros registros de Odonata se incluyen para 6 condados.
3672892|A nest of the honey ant (Myrmecocystus mendax), excavated in October 2000 at an elevation of 5,500 ft near Portal, Arizona, contained 2,797 ants: 1,991 workers, 18 callows, 29 winged queens, 169 winged males, and 590 swollen ants. The swollen ants varied in weight from 0.017 to 0.608 g and had gasters ranging in color from light to dark amber. The nest also contained numerous larvae, 6 pupae, the ant-loving cricket (Myrmecophilia), a staphylinid larva, collembolans, and mites (Gymnolaelaps). The 36 chambers of the nest radiated 10 to 55 cm from the entrance and ranged in depth from 11 to 105 cm. /// El nido de la hormiga de miel (Myrmecocystus mendax), excavado en octubre del 2000 a una altura de 5,500 pies cerca de Portal, Arizona, contena 2,797 hormigas de las cuales, 1,991 de ellas eran obreras, 18 inmaduras, 29 reinas aladas, 169 machos alados, y 590 hormigas hinchadas. Las ltimas variaron en peso desde 0.017 a 0.608 g y tuvieron "gasters" (la parte ancha del abdomen) que variaban en color ambarino claro a oscuro. El hormiguero tambin contena una numerosa cantidad de larvas, 6 pupas, el grillo comedor de hormigas (Myrmecophilia), una larva estafilnida, colmbolas, y caros. El hormiguero tena 36 cmaras con un radio de 10 a 55 cm desde la entrada y tenan una profundidad de 11 a 105 cm.
3672893|In the 1960s, the gynogenetic fish Poecilia formosa was at least 4.2 times as abundant as its sexual host P. latipinna in habitats in and near Brownsville, Texas. That is consistent with theoretical expectations. In winter 1998-1999, both species were found at 10 sampled ponds and ditches in Brownsville. At 7 of the sites, P. latipinna was more abundant in samples than was P. formosa, while the reverse was true at 3 sites. At all but 1 of the locations, the hypothesis that the gynogen was 4.2 times as abundant as its host was rejected on Chi-square criteria. Whether environmental changes since the historical data were collected in the 1960s have been sufficient to change the relationship between the 2 species, or whether the 2 species vary in relative numbers due to their ongoing population interaction, as suggested by recent experimental evidence, is not yet known. /// En los aos 1960, el pez ginogentico Poecilia formosa era por lo menos 4.2 veces ms abundante que su receptor sexual P. latipinna en los hbitats en y cerca de Brownsville, Texas. Esto es de acuerdo con las expectaciones tericas. En el invierno de 1998 a 1999, ambas especies se encontraban en 10 de los 21 estanques y acequias examinados. En 7 de los sitios, P. latipinna era ms abundante que P. formosa en las muestras, mientras lo contrario ocurri en 3 sitios. Para todos los lugares salvo 1, se rechaz a base de los criterios de Chi-cuadrada la hiptesis de que el pez ginogentico era 4.2 veces ms abundante que el pez receptor. No se sabe todava si los cambios ecolgicos desde la coleccin de los datos histricos de los aos 1960 han bastado para cambiar la relacin entre las 2 especies, o si las 2 especies varan en numeros relativos a causa de la continua interaccin de sus poblaciones, como sugiere la reciente evidencia experimental.
3672894|Percina macrolepida has previously been reported from 5 localities in the western portion of the Arkansas River basin in Colorado, New Mexico, and Oklahoma, presumably as a result of introductions. Examination of museum specimens and field sampling in 2000-2001 revealed that P. macrolepida is more widely distributed in the Arkansas River drainage than previously known. We documented the first records of P. macrolepida from the Arkansas River in Arkansas, where it occurs in large numbers throughout the McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River Navigation System. In the Arkansas portion of the Arkansas River, P. macrolepida occurred only in habitats in the main channel, often at the same localities as the morphologically similar P. caprodes. Percina caprodes was the only logperch species found in Arkansas River tributaries or reservoirs on tributaries in Arkansas. Arkansas River basin records for P. macrolepida in Oklahoma are currently known only from the Canadian River drainage, but additional sampling from the Arkansas River main channel in that state could produce new records for this species. It might not be possible to determine whether P. macrolepida is native or introduced in the Arkansas River basin, but it has likely increased in numbers in the Arkansas River in recent decades as a result of the construction of the navigation system. /// Se ha registrado anteriormente el pez Percina macrolepida en 5 localidades de la regin poniente de la cuenca del Ro Arkansas en los estados de Colorado, Nuevo Mxico y Oklahoma, probablemente resultante de introducciones. El estudio de muestras de museos y de campo en los aos 2000 y 2001 indic que P. macrolepida se encuentra ms ampliamente distribuido en la cuenca del Ro Arkansas de lo que previamente se haba pensado. Documentamos las primeras observaciones de P. macrolepida a partir de muestras tomadas del Ro Arkansas en Arkansas donde ocurre en cantidades grandes por todo el sistema de navegacin fluvial McClellan-Kerr del mismo ro. En la porcin del Ro Arkansas que corre por el estado de Arkansas, P. macrolepida ocurri nicamente en hbitats del canal principal y frecuentemente en las mismas localidades donde tambin ocurre la especie morfolgicamente similar, P. caprodes. De estas dos especies, P. caprodes es la nica que se encuentra en tributarios del Ro Arkansas y en presas de estos mismos en Arkansas. Observaciones de P. macrolepida en la cuenca del Ro Arkansas en Oklahoma se han obtenido nicamente del sistema del Ro Canadian, pero muestreos adicionales del canal principal del Ro Arkansas en ese estado puede producir observaciones nuevas de esta especie. Tal vez no ser posible determinar si P. macrolepida es una especie nativa o introducida a la cuenca del Ro Arkansas, pero es probable que el aumento en nmeros en dcadas recientes sea resultado de la construccin del sistema de navegacin fluvial.
3672895|We determined the fates of artificial and natural bird nests in Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) fields in northeastern Kansas from mid May through early August 1994. The CRP fields had been planted to native grasses in 1988 or 1989. Artificial nests contained Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica) or house sparrow (Passer domesticus) eggs in nest baskets in bunchgrass clumps to simulate nests of dickcissels (Spiza americana), the most common avian species nesting in the CRP fields. Natural dickcissel nests were found by rope dragging and intensive searches of the CRP fields. Losses among 562 artificial nests did not differ by egg type; however, the 9.8% loss of artificial nests was significantly lower than the 70.1% loss-level among 97 natural dickcissel nests in those CRP fields. The daily survival rate for artificial nests was 0.99, significantly more than the 0.92 for natural dickcissel nests. An assessment of nest depredation based on data from artificial nests might not be representative of depredation on natural nests in grasslands. /// Comparamos el destino de nidos artificiales y de nidos naturales de pjaros en campos del Programa de Conservacin de Reservas (CRP) en el noreste de Kansas de medianos de mayo a principios de agosto de 1994. Los campos CRP haban sido sembrados con pastos nativos en 1988 o 1989. Huevos de la codorniz japonesa (Coturnix japonica) o del gorrin ingls (Passer domesticus) fueron colocados en canastas en matas de pasto para simular nidos de Spiza americana, la especie de pjaro ms comn nidificando en campos CRP. Nidos naturales de S. americana se encontraron por medio de arrastre de una soga y bsqueda intensiva en campos CRP. Un 9.8% de los 562 nidos artificiales se perdi, un valor significativamente menor que el 70.1% de los 97 nidos naturales. No hubo diferencias en la proporcin de prdida segn el tipo de huevo sembrado en los nidos artificiales. La supervivencia diaria de los nidos artificiales fue de 0.99, significativamente mayor que el 0.92 de los nidos naturales. Una evaluacin de la depredacin de nidos basada en datos obtenidos con nidos artificiales puede no ser representativa de la depredacin de nidos naturales en pastizales.
3672896|The seaside sparrow, Ammodramus maritimus, is known to breed only as far south as Nueces and Copano bays, Texas. Systematic point counts conducted in the spring and summer of 1999 on the Boca Chica Tract of the Lower Rio Grande Valley National Wildlife Refuge revealed 3 attempted seaside sparrow nests, seaside sparrow eggshell fragments, and at least 5 seaside sparrows. Presented here is probable evidence of this species breeding near Brownsville, Texas, over 190 km south of its known breeding range. /// Segn estudios anteriores, el gorrin marino (Ammodramus maritimus) se cra no ms al sur que las zonas de las bahas Nueces y Copano, Texas. Conteos por puntos realizados sistemticamente en la primavera y verano de 1999 en la zona de Boca Chica en el refugio Lower Rio Grande Valley National Wildlife Refuge revelaron 3 nidos iniciados de gorriones marinos, fragmentos de cascarn del huevo marino, y por los menos 5 individuos de gorrin marino. Presentada aqu es probable evidencia de que esta especie se cra cerca de Brownsville, Texas, ms de 190 km al sur de su zona de cra anteriormente conocida.
3672897|Along the northern periphery of their range, populations of the hispid cotton rat, Sigmodon hispidus, are vulnerable to major reductions in density and occasional local extinctions as a result of severe winter weather. Between our sampling periods on 3 December 2000 and 14 January 2001, 3 independent winter weather events, in conjunction with the coldest month in the state since 1983, affected central and eastern Oklahoma. We recorded a drastic decline in the population of hispid cotton rats at the Center for Subsurface and Ecological Assessment Research in central Oklahoma following these winter weather events. Densities dropped from 58.6 cotton rats/ha on 3 December 2000 to 1.2 cotton rats/ha on 14 January 2001. Although hispid cotton rat densities were declining before these winter weather events occurred, we attributed the dramatic decrease to severe winter weather and below-normal temperatures. As of 19 November 2001, the population of hispid cotton rats at the site had not recovered. Abundances between January and November 2001 ranged from 0.6 to 2.6 cotton rats/ha compared with a range of 30.1 to 112.5 during the same period in 2000. Additionally, we present evidence of populations of hispid cotton rats being affected at a statewide scale as a result of the weather in December 2000. We suspect that severe winters, such as the events described, might slow the northward advance of hispid cotton rats and serve to indirectly regulate populations along the intermediate and northern fringes of its range. /// A lo largo de su distribucin septentrional, poblaciones de la rata algdn, Sigmodon hispidus, son vulnerables a reducciones notables en densidad y extinciones locales ocasionales como resultado de clima invernal severo. Entre nuestros perodos de muestreo del 3 de diciembre del 2000 al 14 de enero del 2001, 3 eventos independientes de clima invernal, en conjuncin con el mes ms fro en el estado desde 1983, afectaron la zona central y el este de Oklahoma. Registramos un drstico decline en la poblacin de las ratas en el Center for Subsurface and Ecological Assessment Research en el centro de Oklahoma despus de este clima invernal extremo. Las densidades disminuyeron de 58.6 ratas/ha el 3 de diciembre del 2000 a 1.2 ratas/ha el 14 de enero del 2001. A pesar de que la densidad de las ratas estaba decreciendo antes de las tormentas, atribuimos el dramtico decremento al severo clima invernal y a las temperaturas por debajo de lo normal. Hasta el 19 de noviembre del 2001, la poblacin de las ratas en el sitio no se haba recobrado. Las abundancias entre enero y noviembre del 2001 variaron de 0.6 a 2.6 ratas/ha comparadas con un promedio de 30.1 a 112.5 ratas/ha durante el mismo perodo en el 2000. Adems, presentamos evidencia de poblaciones de ratas afectadas en todo el estado como resultado del clima de diciembre del 2000. Sospechamos que inviernos severos, con los eventos como los descritos arriba, pueden retardar el avance hacia el norte de las ratas y sirven para regular indirectamente las poblaciones a lo largo de su distribucin intermedia y de su franja nortea.
3672898|In 1998, we made an inventory of mammals in the Valle de los Cirios Reserve of the central portion of the state of Baja California, Mexico. New records of Reithrodontomys megalotis were obtained and were collected in 3 years at the same locality. This species is restricted to small marshes within an arid region. The range expanded 230 km to the south. /// En 1998 se realiz el inventario de mamferos de la reserva del Valle de los Cirios en la zona central del estado de Baja California, Mxico. Se obtuvieron nuevos registros de Reithrodontomys megalotis colectndose por 3 aos en la misma localidad. Esta especie se encuentra restringida a una pequea zona anegada dentro de una regin muy seca. Este registro incrementa la distribucin hacia el sur en 230 km.
3672761|Although a substantial literature has demonstrated that disturbances can strongly influence communities, relatively few studies have examined how multiple disturbances influence community structure. This study examined the long-term response of an arid plant community to combinations of grazing by cattle and repeated fire to determine the effects of these disturbances alone and in combination on individual abundances, species richness, and diversity. Over an 8-year period, more species were affected significantly by fire than by grazing. Total abundance, species richness, and diversity of annuals were highest on plots subjected to both burning and grazing, but few significant interaction effects were observed. Thus, fire and grazing seem to affect this arid plant community independently. /// Existe una amplia literatura que demuestra de forma contundente la fuerte influencia que los disturbios ambientales tienen en comunidades. Sin embargo, relativamente pocos estudios han examinado cmo mltiples disturbios influencian la estructura comunitaria. El presente estudio examina las respuestas a largo plazo de una comunidad rida de plantas a una combinacin de pastoreo por ganado y repetidas quemas para determinar los efectos individuales y en combinacin sobre la abundancia individual, la riqueza de especies y la diversidad. En un perodo de 8 aos, ms especies fueron afectadas por el fuego que por el pastoreo. La abundancia total, la riqueza y la diversidad de especies anuales fueron mayores en parcelas sujetas a ambos disturbios, pero se observaron pocos efectos significativos de interacciones. Por lo tanto, parece que el pastoreo y la quema tienen efectos independientes.
3672762|Ski-slope plant communities on Lee Canyon in the Spring Mountains of southern Nevada were surveyed to assess effects of disturbance and environmental factors important in structuring vegetation. Ski runs extended from 2,620 to 2,890 m on the north face of Mount Charleston. Eleven plant communities were identified, including 4 types only on slopes, 1 type only in adjacent forest, and 6 types that occurred on both slopes and in forest. Distance to gravel service roads on the ski runs, soil compaction, ski run width, distance to the forest edge, and gullies were the most important variables in structuring vegetation. Nonnative species were found at all elevations and were frequently dominant. Nonnative species cover and richness were negatively correlated with percent bare area, because the nonnative species vegetated the slopes more densely than the native species. Relative to ski runs in other areas, those on Mount Charleston had high nonnative species invasion and few bare areas; vegetation rarely resembled that of surrounding forests and meadows, except in areas of heavy tree invasion. /// Se estudiaron las comunidades vegetales de los senderos para esquiar en Lee Canyon en las Spring Mountains en el sur del estado de Nevada, USA para evaluar los efectos del disturbio y los factores ambientales importantes en la estructura de la vegetacin. Los senderos para esquiar se extendieron desde 2,650 hasta 2,890 m.s.n.m por el lado norte de Mount Charleston. Se encontraron 11 comunidades de plantas, incluyendo 4 tipos ubicados nicamente en las laderas, 1 tipo nicamente en el bosque adyacente y 6 tipos que ocurrieron en las laderas y tambin en el bosque. Las variables ms importantes en la estructura de la vegetacin fueron la compresin del suelo, el ancho del sendero, la distancia hasta la orilla del bosque, la distancia hasta caminos de grava y las quebradas. Especies no nativas se encontraron a todas alturas y frecuentemente fueron dominantes. Hubo una correlacin negativa entre la cobertura y riqueza de vegetacin no nativa y el porcentaje de suelo desnudo, porque las especies no nativas habitaban las laderas ms densamente que las nativas. En comparacin con senderos para esquiar en otros sitios, los de Mount Charleston tuvieron niveles ms altos de invasin por especies no nativas y menos reas sin vegetacin. La vegetacin de los senderos de esquiar de Mount Charleston se parece muy poco a la de los bosques o pradera a sus alrededores, excepto en reas de mucha invasin de rboles.
3672763|We collected 423 species of diurnal butterflies (Rhopalocera) during 250 days of observations from March 1997 through January 2000 in the region of Calakmul, Campeche, Mexico. We present a list of 428 species recorded for Calakmul. This is the first reported list of butterflies for the state of Campeche, and it includes 290 new records for the state, 374 new records for Calakmul, and 1 new record for Mexico: Monca telata. Museum records were found for 5 additional species: Caria melino, Cissia labe, Tmolus echion, Emesis lupina lupina, and Calephelis azteca. The accumulation curve of species estimates that 457 species should be present in Calakmul, which suggests the list presented is 93% complete. We found that medium, tropical, semievergreen forest is the richest (371 species); more than a quarter of the butterflies of the Calakmul region were found exclusively in this forest. We also found the southern area slightly more abundant in species (82%) than the northern area (79%). Additionally, a comparison was made of the list generated for Campeche to lists from previous studies for Quintana Roo, Tikal-Guatemala National Park, and Belize. The comparison shows that 70%, 58%, and 54% of the butterfly species in Calakmul also are found in Tikal, Quintana Roo, and Belize, respectively. /// Recolectamos 423 especies de mariposas diurnas (Rhopalocera) de la regin de Calakmul, en el estado de Campeche, Mxico, desde marzo de 1997 a enero del 2000 completando 250 das de muestreo. Se presenta una lista de 428 especies registradas para Calakmul. Esta es la primera lista reportada de mariposas para el estado de Campeche y en ella se presentan 290 nuevos registros para este estado, 374 nuevos registros para la regin de Calakmul y un nuevo registro para Mxico: Monca telata. Cinco especies ms fueron encontradas en ejemplares de museos: Caria melino, Cissia labe, Tmolus echion, Emesis lupina lupina y Calephelis azteca. Se presenta una curva de acumulacin de especies con un nmero terico de especies esperadas de 457. De acuerdo con este clculo, la lista presentada est completa en un 93%. Encontramos que la selva tropical, mediana subperennifolia es mayor en riqueza especfica (371), incluso ms de un cuarto de las especies reportadas aqu para Calakmul se encontr exclusivamente en este tipo de vegetacin. Tambin encontramos que el sur es ligeramente ms rico en especies (82%) que la regin del norte de Calakmul (79%). Adicionalmente, se hizo una comparacin con listas de especies encontradas en el estado de Quintana Roo, en el Parque Nacional Tikal-Guatemala y en Belice, donde se muestra que el 70%, 58% y 54% de las especies de Calakmul se comparten con Tikal, Quintana Roo y Belice, respectivamente.
3672764|Mitochondrial DNA sequences and 5 microsatellite DNA loci were used to assess the genetic structure of Micropterus punctulatus (spotted bass) in the upper Red, Ouachita, and Arkansas river basins. Results for 318 spotted bass from 14 localities indicated that extant populations in East Cache Creek, which potentially supported the nominal subspecies M. punctulatus wichitae, are either introductions or they are weakly divergent native populations. Both mtDNA and microsatellite DNA indicated that populations of M. punctulatus in the Ouachita River basin are more similar to those in the Arkansas River basin than to those in the Red River basin. This conflicts with a previous Pleistocene model for the aquatic biogeography of the region. Microsatellites showed no evidence of genetic introgression by M. dolomieu; mtDNA was not divergent between the 2 species, possibly because of ancient introgression. /// Secuencias de ADN mitocondrial y 5 loci de ADN microsatlites se usaron para evaluar la estructura gentica de Micropterus punctulatus en la cuenca alta de los ros Red, Ouachita y Arkansas. Los resultados basados en 318 individuos de 14 localidades indicaron que las poblaciones actuales del riachuelo de East Cache, las cuales sostenan potencialmente la subespecie nominal M. punctulatus wichitae, son o introducciones o poblaciones nativas levemente diferenciadas. Tanto el ADNmt como el ADN microsatlite indicaron que las poblaciones de M. punctulatus de la cuenca del Ro Ouachita son ms similares a las de la cuenca del Ro Arkansas que a las de la cuenca del Ro Red. Esto no concuerda con un modelo Pleistoceno previo de la biogeografia acutica de la regin. Los microsatlites no mostraron evidencia de introgresin gentica por M. dolomieu; el ADNmt no fue divergente entre las 2 especies, posiblemente debido a una introgresin antigua.
3672765|We conducted a mark-recapture study of Siren intermedia in a wetland in southeastern Missouri that is intensively managed for waterfowl. Over a 9-month period, we examined population characteristics, growth rates, and spatial activity. Density and standing crop biomass estimates were 1.35 to <tex-math>$2.17\ \text{sirens}/\text{m}^{2}$</tex-math> and 44.9 to <tex-math>$72.2\ \text{g}/\text{m}^{2}$</tex-math>. Juveniles comprised 39% of the population. Adult males were significantly larger in both total length and mass than adult females. Sirens from our population had relatively low growth rates compared to some populations in other areas. Smaller individuals tended to grow faster than larger individuals. Maximum distance between captures did not differ significantly among juveniles and adult males and females. Home ranges of adults overlapped considerably and were highly variable in size, ranging from 1 to <tex-math>$232\ \text{m}^{2}$</tex-math>. Sirens can be the dominant vertebrate in many wetland communities, and their natural history and spatial ecology should be considered in management decisions. /// Conducimos un estudio de marca-recaptura de Siren intermedia en un humedal del sureste de Missouri que es manejado intensamente para aves acuticas. Durante un perodo de 9 meses, examinamos caractersticas de la poblacin, tasas de crecimiento y actividad espacial. Estimaciones de densidad y biomasa fueron de 1.35 a <tex-math>$2.17\ \text{animales}/\text{m}^{2}$</tex-math> y de 44.9 a <tex-math>$72.2\ \text{g}/\text{m}^{2}$</tex-math>. Los juveniles formaron el 39% de la poblacin. Machos adultos fueron significativamente ms grandes tanto en longitud total como en masa comparados con hembras adultas. Las sirenas de nuestra poblacin tuvieron relativamente bajas tasas de crecimiento comparadas con algunas poblaciones en otras reas. Individuos pequeos solieron crecer ms rpido que los ms grandes. La distancia mxima entre capturas no difiri significativamente entre los juveniles y los machos y hembras adultos. Los rangos de hogar de adultos se sobrepusieron bastante y variaron mucho en tamao, desde 1 a <tex-math>$232\ \text{m}^{2}$</tex-math>. Las sirenas pueden ser el vertebrado dominante en muchas comunidades de humedales, y su historia natural y ecologa espacial deben ser consideradas en decisiones del manejo.
3672766|Current hypotheses suggest that many of the biased sex ratios reported for turtle populations are the result of sampling errors, such as improper sex determination, collection bias, and behavioral differences between the sexes. This study was performed to assess whether the observed sex ratio of a population of stinkpots (Sternotherus odoratus) was an artifact of sampling biases. A total of 989 stinkpots (637 males, 352 females) was captured from 1996 through 2000 at Spring Lake, Aquarena Center, Hays County, Texas. The overall sex ratio based on all census techniques was significantly male-biased (1.8M:1F). The sex ratio changed across size classes. Data from a bimonthly trapping experiment from May 1999 through May 2000, in which hoop traps baited with either a food source or a mature female stinkpot, reinforced the view that the observed sex ratio in this population is inherently skewed, and not an artifact of sampling techniques. /// Hiptesis actuales sugieren que muchas de las tendencias en las proporciones de sexos de las poblaciones de tortugas son resultado de errores en los muestreos, como en la determinacin de sexo, predisposicin en la colecta y diferencias de comportamiento entre los sexos. Este estudio se hizo para determinar si la proporcin sexual en una poblacin de Sternotherus odoratus fue producto de muestreos sesgados. Un total de 989 S. odoratus (637 machos y 352 hembras) fue capturado desde 1996 hasta el 2000 en Spring Lake, Aquarena Center, condado de Hays, Texas. Usando todas las tcnicas de censo, result que la proporcin sexual estaba significativamente en favor de machos (1.8M:1.0H). La proporcin sexual cambi con las clases de tamao. Los resultados de un experimento de mayo de 1999 a mayo del 2000, con dos trampeos mensuales usando trampas cilndricas cebadas con alimento o una hembra madura de S. odoratus, apoyaron la idea de que sta es la verdadera proporcin sexual que existe en esta poblacin y no es un error de las tcnicas de muestreos.
3672767|Phyllorhynchus have been proposed to eat a wide variety of food items. The leading hypothesis is that the tails of the gecko Coleonyx variegatus are an important food source. We dissected museum specimens of P. decurtatus and P. browni. The diet of P. decurtatus consisted primarily of squamate eggs; few individuals of that species contained the tails of C. variegatus. The diet of P. browni consisted entirely of squamate eggs. We compared the monthly diet patterns between the sexes, as well as between the species. /// Se ha propuesto que Phyllorhynchus se alimenta de una gran variedad de tipos de comida. La hiptesis preferida es que las colas del gecko Coleonyx variegatus son una fuente importante de alimento. Hicimos disecciones de especimenes de museo de P. decurtatus y P. browni. La dieta de P. decurtatus consisti principalmente de huevos de Squamata; muy pocos individuos contuvieron colas de C. variegatus. La dieta de P. browni consisti enteramente de huevos de Squamata. Comparamos los patrones mensuales de la dieta entre sexos, as como entre especies.
3672768|Declines in loggerhead shrike (Lanius ludovicianus) populations have been associated in part with habitat loss and degradation, including that resulting from urbanization. We monitored the productivity and examined nesting habitat of loggerhead shrikes nesting in an urban environment in Tucson, Arizona. We located 22 breeding pairs in 1997 and 26 breeding pairs in 1998, with a 72% breeding area reoccupancy between years. Mean fledgling numbers were 2.28/nesting attempt and 3.11/successful nest. Although some pairs initially failed and renested, 91% and 73% of shrike pairs successfully fledged young in 1997 and 1998, respectively. Mayfield estimates of nesting success were 78% in 1997 and 65% in 1998. Nest sites were characterized by more trees >3 m in height, taller nest trees than those randomly available, and a greater proportion of bare ground surface than at random sites. Shrike breeding territories had lower proportions of residential and commercial development and greater proportions of open areas with low-growing vegetation than randomly available. Some shrikes nested in school playgrounds, residential front yards, and parking lots, if adjacent open space was available. /// Disminuciones en las poblaciones del verdugo (Lanius ludovicianus) han sido asociadas, al menos en parte, con la prdida y degradacin del hbitat, incluyendo la resultante de la urbanizacin. Monitoreamos la productividad y examinamos el hbitat de anidacin de verdugos en un rea urbana de Tucson, Arizona. Ubicamos a 22 y 26 parejas de verdugos en 1997 y 1998, respectivamente, con una reocupacin del rea del 72% entre aos. El promedio de volantones fue de 2.28 /intento nidificador y de 3.11 /nido exitoso. A pesar de que algunas parejas fallaron inicialmente y volvieron a anidar, el 91% y 73% de las parejas de verdugos produjeron volantones en 1997 y 1998, respectivamente. Las estimaciones del xito de anidacin de Mayfield fueron de 78% en 1997 y de 65% en 1998. Los sitios de anidacin se caracterizaron por tener ms rboles >3 m de altura, rboles nidificadores ms altos que los disponibles al azar y una mayor superficie de suelo desnudo que en sitios seleccionados al azar. Los territorios de los verdugos en sus reas de reproduccin tuvieron una menor proporcin de desarrollo comercial y residencial y mayor proporcin de reas abiertas con vegetacin baja que lo aleatoriamente disponible. Algunos verdugos anidaron en parques de recreo escolar, jardines residenciales y estacionamientos, cuando espacios abiertos adyacentes estaban disponibles.
3672769|Patterns of endemism of terrestrial mammals inhabiting Mxico are analyzed by applying Parsimony Analysis of Endemicity (PAE) to 47 ecoregions. The ecoregions were classified in 2 main groups: ecoregions of the Baja California Peninsula and ecoregions of the rest of the country. We found 27 ecoregions with characteristic taxa, and 5 areas of endemism: Northern High Plateau, Baja California, Chiapas, Isthmus, and Yucatn Peninsula. Groups of ecoregions are basically congruent with other regionalization schemes previously proposed for the country. /// Se analizan los patrones de endemismo de mamferos terrestres de Mxico aplicando Anlisis de Parsimonia de Endemismos (PAE) a 47 ecorregiones. Las ecorregiones se clasificaron en 2 grupos principales: las de la Pennsula de Baja California y las del resto del pas. Encontramos 27 ecorregiones con taxones caractersticos y 5 reas de endemismo: Altiplano Norte, Baja California, Chiapas, Istmo y Pennsula de Yucatn. Bsicamente, los grupos de ecorregiones fueron congruentes con otros esquemas de regionalizacin propuestos previamente para el pas.
3672770|Conversion of tropical rain forest to pasture and cropland often leads to a loss of local species. However, information on the role of some isolated elements of the fragmented landscape on maintaining biodiversity is lacking. This study, carried out in human-made pastures in Veracruz, Mexico, demonstrated the year-round presence of frugivorous bats in isolated trees inside pastures and in riparian corridors of vegetation among pastures. During a 1-year study (October 1995 through September 1996), we captured 652 bats belonging to 20 species, representing 56% of the total species recorded for the area. Higher abundance and diversity of bats were recorded for riparian sites than for isolated trees. Of the bats we captured, 82% were frugivorous, 15% insectivorous, 2% nectarivorous-frugivorous, and 2% sanguivorous. Bats visited isolated trees regardless of tree species or phenological state. Abundance decreased with distance from the nearest forest fragment. We discuss how riparian corridors and isolated trees in pastures might contribute to maintaining diversity of frugivorous bats and plants in a fragmented landscape. /// La transformacin de las selvas tropicales en pastizales y reas de cultivo frecuentemente conduce a la prdida de especies locales. Sin embargo, falta informacin sobre el papel de algunos elementos aislados del paisaje fragmentado en el mantenimiento de la biodiversidad. Este estudio registr la presencia de murcilagos frugvoros durante todo el ao bajo rboles aislados y en la vegetacin riparia remanente en pastizales antropognicos en Veracruz, Mxico. Durante un ao de estudio (octubre 1995-septiembre 1996), capturamos 652 murcilagos de 20 especies, que representan el 56% de las especies registradas en el rea. Los sitios en la vegetacin riparia registraron mayor abundancia y diversidad que los sitios bajo rboles aislados. El 82% del total de murcilagos fueron frugvoros, 15% insectvoros, 2% nectarvoros-frugvoros y 2% sanguvoros. Los murcilagos visitaron los rboles aislados independientemente de la especie del rbol o de su estado fenolgico. La abundancia disminuy a mayor distancia del fragmento forestal ms cercano. Discutimos cmo los corredores riparios y rboles aislados en los pastizales pueden contribuir al mantenimiento de cierta diversidad de murcilagos y plantas en el paisaje fragmentado.
3672771|We determined the foraging range of Mexican free-tailed bats (Tadarida brasiliensis mexicana) that spend summer in Carlsbad Cavern, Carlsbad Caverns National Park, New Mexico. We captured bats at varying distances and directions from the cavern and attached a radiotransmitter to each. During daylight hours, we entered Carlsbad Cavern to determine if bats with radiotransmitters were present in the maternity roost. The distribution of localities where captured bats returned to Carlsbad Cavern indicated a nightly foraging range of at least 56 km from Carlsbad Cavern. Our data indicated that the colony eventually dispersed in every direction after leaving the cavern each evening and foraged in a space nearly <tex-math>$4,000\ \text{km}^{3}$</tex-math>. This study was the first to document use of water sources on property of Carlsbad Caverns and Guadalupe Mountains national parks, the Lincoln National Forest, and other sites in southeastern New Mexico and western Texas by members of the colony of T. b. mexicana that reside in Carlsbad Cavern. /// Determinamos la extensin de forrajear de los murcilagos mexicanos de colas libres (Tadarida brasiliensis mexicana) que pasan los veranos en la Caverna de Carlsbad en el Parque Nacional de Carlsbad Caverns, Nuevo Mxico. Apresamos murcilagos a distancias variables y a sentidos variables de la caverna y les pusimos emisores de radio. Durante las horas de luz, entramos en la Caverna de Carlsbad para determinar si los murcilagos con emisores de radio estaban presentes en su percha de maternidad. La distribucin de las localidades donde los murcilagos apresados regresaron a la Caverna de Carlsbad sugiri una extensin de forrajear cada noche de por lo menos 56 km de la Caverna de Carlsbad. Nuestros datos dieron a entender que la colonia se dispers eventualmente en todos sentidos despus de salir de la caverna cada noche y luego forraje en un espacio de casi <tex-math>$4.000\ \text{km}^{3}$</tex-math>. Esta investigacin fue la primera que document el uso de fuentes de agua en la propiedad de los parques nacionales de Carlsbad Caverns y de Guadalupe Mountains, el Bosque Nacional de Lincoln y otros sitios en el sudeste de Nuevo Mxico y en el oeste de Texas por residentes de la colonia de T. b. mexicana que residen en la Caverna de Carlsbad.
3672772|A small, late Quaternary deposit of degraded bat guano in Arkenstone Cave, Colossal Cave Mountain Park, Pima County, Arizona, yielded thousands of fossil bat bones. The bones primarily represent an attritional accumulation of dead bats beneath a maternity colony of Myotis thysanodes, a species that no longer roosts at the elevation of the cave. Rarer bones in the deposit represent a smaller species of Myotis and the extinct vampire Desmodus stocki. Due to leaching in the alkaline cave environment, the bones could not be dated by radiocarbon, but the fossils probably date to the late Pleistocene. Myotis thysanodes, a species that frequently forages in the desert but typically day-roosts at higher elevations in pygmy conifer woodland or higher vegetative zones, is consistent with the occurrence of conifer woodland at similar elevations in nearby mountain ranges in the late Pleistocene. This is the first record of D. stocki in what is now the Sonoran Desert and the second locality of occurrence for the species in Arizona. /// Miles de huesos de murcilagos fueron recuperados de un depsito pequeo de guano degradado de murcilago del Cuaternario tardo, en la Cueva Arkenstone, Colossal Cave Mountain Park, condado de Pima, Arizona. La mayora de los huesos representan una acumulacin de murcilagos muertos debajo de una colonia maternal de Myotis thysanodes, especie que ya no se refugia en la altura de la cueva. Otras especies del depsito incluyen huesos raros de una especie ms pequea de Myotis y del murcilago vampiro extinto, Desmodus stocki. La datacin de los huesos con carbono radiactivo no fue posible debido a la lixiviacin en el ambiente alcalino de la cueva, pero probablemente los fsiles datan del Pleistoceno tardo. La presencia de M. thysanodes, especie que frecuentemente forrajea en el desierto pero que tpicamente reside a mayor altitud en bosques de conferas pigmeas o en zonas vegetales ms altas, est consistente con la presencia de bosques conferos en alturas similares en las sierras cercanas durante el Pleistoceno tardo. Este es el primer registro de D. stocki en lo que ahora se llama el Desierto Sonorense y la segunda localidad de la especie en Arizona.
3672773|We describe population estimates, survival rates, and aspects of hibernation for a population of Zapus hudsonius preblei along a 3.7-km section of South Boulder Creek and 2 associated outflow ditches in Boulder County, Colorado. Mark-recapture analysis was used on 352 marked jumping mice with 722 captures from 6 paired sites along the creek and 2 sites on ditches. Linear population density estimates ranged from 22.7  7.9 to 79.5  33.3 animals/km of stream-reach for the 6 sites combined along South Boulder Creek, and from 33.9  1.6 to 85.6  30.3 animals/km along the occupied ditches. This study highlights the potential importance of irrigation ditches as suitable habitat for Z. h. preblei. Estimated over-winter survival rate for both sexes combined was 54.1  18.8%, summer survival rate was 16.2  9.6%, and combined annual survival rate was 8.8  6.0%. We suggest that good hibernation habitat is important for these populations to offset low summer survival. First emergence from hibernation was 19 May 1999, the only year trapping was conducted during the emergence period. Males preceded females. Adults were captured in June with low post-hibernation weights and reached weights that would enable them to enter hibernation by the third week in August. Juveniles captured after mid September were considered to be offspring from second litters. By mid October in both years, no jumping mice were captured, and we infer that they had all entered hibernation. /// Presentamos estimaciones del tamao de la poblacin, las tasas de supervivencia y los aspectos de la hibernacin de una poblacin de Zapus hudsonius preblei a lo largo de 3.7 km del arroyo South Boulder y 2 zanjas asociadas en el condado de Boulder, Colorado. Se utiliz un anlisis de marca-recaptura de 352 ratones saltadores marcados con 722 capturas de 6 sitios en pares a lo largo del arroyo y 2 sitios en las zanjas. Las estimaciones lineares de la poblacin se encontraron desde 22.7  7.9 a 79.5  33.3 animales/km en los 6 sitios combinados a lo largo del arroyo, y desde 33.9  1.6 a 85.6  30.3 animales/km a lo largo de las zanjas ocupadas. Este estudio destaca la importancia potencial de las zanjas de regado como hbitat adecuado para Z. h. preblei. La tasa de supervivencia invernal para los sexos agrupados se estim en 54.1  18.8%, la tasa de supervivencia en el verano fue de 16.2  9.6% y la tasa combinada anual de supervivencia fue de 8.8  6.0%. Sugerimos que un buen hbitat para la hibernacin para estas poblaciones es importante para contrarrestar la baja supervivencia durante el verano. La primera salida de la hibernacin ocurri el 19 de mayo de 1999, el nico ao en que se hizo el trampeo durante la primavera. Los machos precedieron a las hembras. El peso post-hibernacin de los adultos en junio era bajo y llegaron a alcanzar un peso que les permiti empezar a hibernar en la tercera semana de agosto. Juveniles capturados despus de mediados de septiembre se consideraron como la cra de la segunda camada. A mediados de octubre durante ambos aos no se captur ningn ratn, as que dedujimos que todos los ratones estaban hibernando.
3672774|The low number of records and specimens of red foxes (Vulpes vulpes) for Arizona and Utah through the 1960s prompted us to collect verified records of the species from the Navajo Nation in northeastern Arizona and southeastern Utah. We compiled and verified 80 visual observations of 88 live and dead foxes, and 21 specimens, from the study area between 1979 and 2001. We also compiled 686 supplemental records of foxes reportedly trapped by permitted furtrappers within the same area and time period. This work verified that the red fox was common to this region despite the low number of records prior to the 1960s and that northeastern Arizona should be included in distribution maps for the species. We analyzed temporal and spatial distributions of fox records and determined the vegetation types and elevational range of records within the study area. Numbers of trapped foxes (and trappers) peaked during the mid 1980s, but the number of observations has remained relatively constant. Foxes occupied a 1,100-m range of elevations and were observed in equal numbers in 3 vegetation types that comprise 95% of the study area. Seventeen of the 21 specimens were measured for 15 standard cranial measurements. A thorough literature review and museum search revealed 8 specimens previously documented elsewhere. /// El nmero bajo de registros y especimenes del zorro rojo (Vulpes vulpes) en Arizona y Utah hasta la dcada de 1960 nos apremi a recopilar los registros verificados de dicha especie en la reserva indgena Navajo en la regin noreste de Arizona, y sureste de Utah. Recopilamos y verificamos 80 observaciones visuales de 88 zorros vivos y muertos, y 21 especimenes, en el rea del estudio entre 1979 y 2001. Tambin recopilamos 686 registros suplementales de zorros supuestamente atrapados por pelajadores con permiso dentro del mismo plazo y lugar. Esta investigacin verific que el zorro rojo fue comn en la regin a pesar del bajo nmero de registros antes de 1970, y que Arizona debe incluirse en los mapas distribucionales de la especie. Analizamos la distribucin espacial y temporal de los registros de zorros, y determinamos el rango de altura geogrfica y los tipos de vegetacin dentro del rea de estudio. El nmero de zorros atrapados (y pelajadores activos) alcanz su pico a mediados de la dcada de 1980, mientras que el nmero de observaciones visuales permaneci ms  menos constante. Los zorros ocupaban un rango de 1.100 m de altura y fueron observados en cantidades iguales en 3 tipos distintos de vegetacin que representan 95% del rea del estudio. De los 21 especimenes, 17 fueron medidos por 15 mediciones estndar del crneo. Una bsqueda extensiva en la literatura y en los museos revel 8 zorros ya documentados en otras fuentes.
3672775|Biting insects impose costs on hosts, including decreased feeding or resting time as the result of disturbance, blood loss, and disease transmission. Insect-repelling behaviors, such as ear-flicking, head-shaking, stamping, and grouping, have evolved in many ungulate species to minimize these costs. We studied female desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana) at Red Rock Wildlife Area, New Mexico, during the summers of 1999 and 2000. We tested the predictions that: 1) bighorn sheep will increase insect-defense behavior when biting insects are more abundant, and 2) close aggregation of sheep will decrease the per capita insect harassment by means of a dilution effect. Numbers of midges and other biting insects increased in association with rising temperature and decreased with increasing wind speed. Ewes performed between 0 and 78 ear-flicks/min, and >5,000 ear-flicks over the course of a 12-h day. As predicted, the rate of ear-flicking was positively correlated with counts of biting insects, indicating that ear-flicking was a direct response to the irritation of attacking insects. We also found a negative correlation between the number of sheep clustered together within 1 body length and ear-flicking rate, suggesting that insect harassment is diluted when bighorn sheep bunch together. Bighorn sheep generally bedded on upper slopes and rocky outcrops exposed to gusts of wind. These results indicate that ear-flicking, grouping, and microhabitat choice might be important strategies for reducing the costs of biting insects in desert bighorn sheep. /// Los insectos que pican imponen costos a sus huspedes, incluyendo una disminucin en el tiempo de alimentacin o descanso como consecuencia de la molestia, la prdida de sangre, y la transmisin de enfermedades. Los comportamientos para repeler los insectos, tales como mover las orejas, sacudir la cabeza, dar coces, y agruparse, han evolucionado en muchas especies de ungulados para minimizar los costos. Estudiamos las hembras del borrego cimarrn (Ovis canadensis mexicana) en Red Rock Wildlife Area, Nuevo Mxico, durante los veranos de 1999 y 2000. Probamos las predicciones que 1) los borregos aumentarn los comportamientos de defensa en contra de los insectos cuando estos insectos son ms abundantes, y 2) el agrupamiento de los borregos disminuir el hostigamiento per capita de los insectos a travs del efecto de la dilucin. El nmero de insectos que pican aument en relacin con el incremento de la temperatura, y disminuy con el aumento del viento. Las ovejas hembra realizaron entre 0 y 78 movimientos de orejas/minuto, lo que equivale >5,000 movimientos de orejas en el transcurso de un da de 12 horas. Como se predijo, la proporcin de movimientos de orejas estuvo positivamente correlacionada con el nmero de insectos, indicando que el movimiento de las orejas era una respuesta directa a la irritacin de los piquetes de insectos. Tambin se encontr una correlacin negativa entre el nmero de borregos agrupados dentro del largo corporal y la tasa del movimiento de las orejas, lo que sugiere que el hostigamiento de los insectos se diluye cuando los borregos se juntan. Los borregos generalmente seleccionaron lechos para echarse en laderas altas y afloramientos rocosos expuestos a rfagas de viento. Estos resultados indican que los movimientos de las orejas, el agrupamiento, y la eleccin del hbitat pueden ser importantes estrategias para reducir el costo de los insectos que pican en el borrego cimarrn.
3672776|Desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) and Texas white-tailed deer (O. virginianus texanus) are sympatric in west-central Texas. During winter, spring, and summer 1999 and 2000, we recorded locations of sympatric mule and white-tailed deer to determine habitat-use differences between species. We measured 379 mule deer and white-tailed deer locations for biotic and abiotic landscape parameters. Slope and percent shrub cover explained most variation in distributions of the 2 species. Locations of bedded deer were the most discriminated behavior type for all models. Density of shrubs and slope were the most important variables used to describe habitat preference by either deer species. Mean shrub cover used by mule and white-tailed deer at bed sites was 37.7% and 53.9%, respectively. Mean percent slopes used by mule and white-tailed deer for bed sites were 9.2 and 2.9, respectively. To a lesser extent, the same habitat parameters discriminated locations between deer species for moving and browsing for 1999 and 2000. If land managers want to maintain both deer species, several land management actions might be necessary. For mule deer on relatively steep slopes, managers should maintain lower percent woody cover and encourage native forb growth. For white-tailed deer in lower drainages, managers should maintain >50% woody species cover and encourage intermittent grass growth in the remaining areas. /// El venado bura del desierto (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) y el venado cola blanca de Texas (O. virginianus texanus) viven en simpatra en el centro oeste de Texas. Durante el invierno, primavera, y verano de 1999 y 2000, registramos localizaciones de venados bura y de cola blanca en zonas simptricas para determinar las diferencias en el uso de hbitat entre las especies. Se midieron parmetros biticos y abiticos del paisaje para las 2 especies en 379 ubicaciones. La pendiente y el porcentaje de cobertura arbustiva explicaron la mayor parte de la variacin de la distribucin de las 2 especies. Las localizaciones de venados echados fueron el tipo de comportamiento ms discriminado en todos los modelos. La densidad arbustiva y la pendiente fueron las variables utilizadas ms importantes para describir la preferencia de hbitat de las 2 especies de venados. La media en la cobertura arbustiva utilizada por venados bura y venados cola blanca en lechos de descanso fue de 37.7% y 53.9%, respectivamente. Las medias del porcentaje de pendiente encontradas en los lechos de descanso para los venados bura y cola blanca fueron de 9.2 y 2.9, respectivamente. A una medida menor, los mismos parmetros de hbitat discriminaron las localizaciones entre las especies de venados para sus desplazamientos y lugares de forrajeo en 1999 y 2000. Si los administradores de tierra desean mantener ambas especies de venado, podran ser necesarias algunas acciones de manejo. Para venados bura en las pendientes relativamente inclinadas, los administradores debern mantener bajos porcentajes de cobertura arbustiva y fomentar el crecimiento de hierbas nativas. Para venados cola blanca en tierra baja, los administradores debern mantener la cubierta arbustiva ms del 50% y facilitar el crecimiento de pastos en el resto de las reas.
3672777|Frequency of interspecific hybridization between mule deer and white-tailed deer was investigated using ribosomal DNA and nucleotide sequences from the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene. Two of 15 individuals (collected by hunters) from northwestern Texas (Kent County) were identified as hybrids based on the ribosomal DNA marker. Sequence data from the cytochrome b gene indicated that 1 individual was the result of mating between a mule deer doe and a white-tailed deer buck, whereas the second individual resulted from mating between a white-tailed deer doe and a mule deer buck. These results indicate that hybridization between mule deer and white-tailed deer is not restricted to the Trans-Pecos region of Texas. Given the low levels of genetic divergence and frequency of hybridization, the validity of recognizing mule deer and white-tailed deer as distinct species is discussed. It is concluded that without the morphological and behavioral differences these 2 taxa could be considered subspecies rather than distinct species. /// La frecuencia de hibridacin entre venados bura y venados cola blanca fue investigada usando ADN ribosomal, y secuencias de nucletidos del gen citocromo b mitocondrial. Dos de 15 individuos (obtenidos a travs de cazadores) provenientes del noroeste de Texas (condado de Kent) fueron identificados como hbridos basndose en el marcador ADN ribosomal. Los datos de las secuencias del gen citocromo b indicaron que un individuo fue el resultado de un apareamiento entre una hembra venado bura y un macho venado cola blanca, mientras que otro individuo fue el resultado de un apareamiento entre una hembra venado cola blanca y un macho venado bura. Estos resultados indican que la hibridacin entre los venados bura y los venados cola blanca no est restringida a la regin Trans-Pecos de Texas. Dado los bajos niveles de divergencia gentica y frecuencia de hibridacin, se discute la validez del reconocimiento de los 2 venados como especies distintas. Se concluye que sin las diferencias morfolgicas y conductuales estos 2 grupos podran ser considerados como subespecies y no especies distintas.
3672778|The seasonality of 10 of the most abundant species of macromycetes was studied at 3 sites in west-central Mexico. Collections over 20 years from the Instituto de Botnica of the Universidad de Guadalajara database were used for this study. Two of the sites were pine-oak forests: Mazamitla (70 collections) and Tapalpa (68 collections). The third consisted of an ecotone between subtropical cloud forest and pine-oak forest: Nevado de Colima (91 collections). The 3 sites are close to the tropical region and have a rainy season between late May and October. The development and abundance of fruit bodies were related to the climate and the vegetation of each site. Differences were found at 3 scales for both fructification time and abundance: between sites, between species, and within species at different sites. /// Se estudi la fenologa de 10 de las especies ms frecuentes de macromicetos en 3 sitios del centro-occidente de Mxico. Para ello se usaron las colecciones capturadas en la base de datos del Instituto de Botnica de la Universidad de Guadalajara, obtenidas en ms de 20 aos. Dos de los sitios fueron bosque de pino-encino: Mazamitla (70 colecciones) y Tapalpa (68 colecciones). El tercero correspondi a un ecotono entre bosque mesfilo de montaa y bosque de pino-encino: Nevado de Colima (91 colecciones). Los 3 sitios tienen afinidades tropicales y presentan una temporada de lluvias entre finales de mayo y octubre. El desarrollo y la abundancia de los cuerpos fructferos se relacionaron con el clima y la vegetacin de cada sitio. Se observaron diferencias a 3 escalas en cuanto al tiempo de fructificacin y a la abundancia: entre sitios, entre especies y dentro de especies en sitios diferentes.
3672779|We report collections of threatened loach minnow, Tiaroga cobitis, from 2 Gila River basin (Arizona) streams, one representing a rediscovery and the other a new record. The species had been taken in 1950 from Eagle Creek, but it was not seen again until 1994-1997 and, despite repeated attempts, has not been detected since. It likely persists in adjacent, unsampled areas. A new distribution record is reported for loach minnow captured in 1996 from North Fork of East Fork Black River. This last population has been resampled repeatedly and seems stable. Genetic analysis confirms the uniqueness of these and most other known populations, and we recommend protection and conservation of loach minnow in these 2 streams. /// Reportamos colectas de la especie amenazada carpita locha, Tiaroga cobitis, provenientes de 2 arroyos de la cuenca del Ro Gila (Arizona), una representa un redescubrimiento y la otra un nuevo registro. La especie fue colectada en 1950 en Eagle Creek, y no fue observada otra vez sino hasta 1994-1997 y, no obstante repetidos intentos, no se ha detectado desde entonces. Probablemente persiste en reas adyacentes no muestreadas. Un nuevo registro de distribucin se anota para carpitas locha capturadas en 1996 del North Fork of East Fork Black River. Esta poblacin ha sido muestreada repetidas veces y parece estable. Un anlisis gentico confirma la singularidad de stas y de la mayora de las otras poblaciones conocidas, y recomendamos la proteccin y la conservacin de la carpita locha en estos 2 arroyos.
3672780|We describe the tadpole of the recently described hylid frog Hyla xera and report information regarding the distribution and natural history of this species endemic to the Tehuacn-Cuicatln Valley in Oaxaca and Puebla, Mexico. This species was previously known only from the type locality near Zapotitln Salinas, Puebla, south of Tehuacan, Puebla. With our work, its range is now extended, adding 6 localities in Puebla and 4 in Oaxaca. Adults take refuge in arboreal bromeliads and breed in streams in the rainy season from May to August. /// Describimos el renacuajo del anuro recientemente descrito Hyla xera, y aportamos informacin sobre la distribucin e historia natural de este hlido endmico del Valle de Tehuacn-Cuicatln en Oaxaca y en Puebla, Mxico. Esta especie era conocida nicamente de la localidad tipo cerca de Zapotitln Salinas, Puebla, al sur de Tehuacn, Puebla. A partir de este trabajo se amplia el conocimiento sobre la distribucin de esta especie, adicionando 6 localidades para el estado de Puebla y 4 para Oaxaca. Los adultos se refugian dentro de las bromelias y su reproduccin se lleva a cabo en arroyos durante la temporada de lluvias de mayo a agosto.
3672781|Anaxyrus melancholicus Tschudi, 1845, has been referred to as a nomen dubium by various authors. In this note, a holotype of A. melancholicus Tschudi is designated and referred to the synonymy of the Mexican species Bufo compactilis Wiegmann. /// Anaxyrus melancholicus Tschudi, 1845, ha sido referido como un nomen dubium por varios autores. En esta nota, un holotipo de A. melancholicus Tschudi es designado y referido como sonnimo de la especie Mexicana Bufo compactilis Wiegmann.
3672782|To study possible intergradation between Aspidoscelis tigris munda (west) and A. t. tigris (east) through Walker Pass, a low-elevation corridor in the southern Sierra Nevada, California, I collected 90 individuals of A. tigris from 26 May through 2 June 1994 from a 24-km transect with 3 evenly spaced sampling sites representing populations on the summit (1,555 m), west slope (1,098 m), and east slope (1,014 m). The central (summit) population lacked phenotypic intermediacy in body size (larger), color (greater melanism), and multivariate morphological variation (means of first canonical variate: summit > west > east). In addition, egg clutches were present only in females from the summit population. Stepwise regression of snout-vent length (SVL) on 6 environmental variables revealed that body size was related positively only to winter precipitation. Dominant vegetation of the 3 sampling sites substantiates the presence of a pronounced rain shadow at Walker Pass. It is likely that the phenotypic and reproductive differences among the 3 populations are related to the greater amount of critical winter precipitation at the summit of the pass. /// Para estudiar la posible intergradacin entre Aspidoscelis tigris munda (oeste) y A. t. tigris (este) a travs del Walker Pass, un corredor de baja altitud en el sur de la Sierra Nevada, condado de Kern, California, colect 90 individuos de A. tigris del 26 de mayo al 2 de junio de 1994 de un transecto de 24 km con 3 sitios de muestreo igualmente dispersados representando las poblaciones de la cima (1,555 m), la vertiente oeste (1,098 m) y la vertiente este (1,014 m). La poblacin central (cima) no present caractersticas intermedias en tamao corporal (ms grande), coloracin (melanismo mayor), ni variacin morfolgica multivariada (medias en el primer eje cannico: cima > oeste > este). Adems, se encontraron puestas de huevos solamente en hembras de la poblacin de la cima. Regresin progresiva de longitud hocico-cloaca (LHC) en 6 variables ambientales revel que el tamao corporal estuvo positivamente relacionado solamente con la precipitacin invernal. La vegetacin dominante de los 3 sitios de muestreo confirma la presencia de una sombra de lluvias pronunciada en Walker Pass. Es probable que todas las diferencias fenotpicas y reproductivas entre los 3 poblaciones estn relacionadas a la mayor cantidad de precipitacin crtica invernal en la cima del paso.
3672783|Four syntopic assemblages of parthenogenetic lizards were compared for differences in body size at which reproductive maturity is attained and mean clutch size: 1) Aspidoscelis flagellicauda and A. exsanguis from the vicinity of San Francisco Hot Springs (type locality of A. flagellicauda), Catron and Grant counties, New Mexico; 2) A. flagellicauda and A. sonorae from the vicinity of Oracle, Pinal County, Arizona (type locality of A. sonorae); 3) A. sonorae (3 color pattern classes) from the vicinity of Cochise Stronghold, Cochise County, Arizona; and 4) A. sonorae (2 color pattern classes) from the vicinity of Parker Canyon Lake, Cochise County, Arizona. Reproduction begins at a smaller body size in A. exsanguis (61 mm SVL) than in A. flagellicauda (70 mm SVL). This results in a higher population density in A. exsanguis, despite the larger mean clutch size in A. flagellicauda (3.7 vs. 3.3 eggs). Aspidoscelis sonorae and A. flagellicauda, although morphologically distinguishable, were not significantly different in size at reproductive maturity or mean clutch size, which was also true for the color pattern classes of A. sonorae. /// Cuatro ensambles sintpicos de lagartijas partenogenticas fueron comparados para encontrar las diferencias en tamao corporal al alcanzar la madurez sexual y en tamao promedio de la nidada: 1) Aspidoscelis flagellicauda y A. exsanguis del rea de San Francisco Hot Springs (localidad tipo de A. flagellicauda), condados de Catron y Grant, Nuevo Mxico; 2) A. flagellicauda y A. sonorae del rea de Oracle, condado de Pinal, Arizona (localidad tipo de A. sonorae); 3) A. sonorae (3 patrones de coloracin corporal) del rea de Cochise Stronghold, condado de Cochise, Arizona; y 4) A. sonorae (2 patrones de coloracin corporal) del rea de Parker Canyon Lake, condado de Cochise, Arizona. La reproduccin comienza a un tamao corporal menor en A. exsanguis (61 mm longitud hocico-cloaca, LHC) que en A. flagellicauda (70 mm LHC). Esto resulta en una poblacin ms densa de A. exsanguis a pesar de un tamao promedio de nidada ms grande en A. flagellicauda (3.7 vs. 3.3 huevos). Aspidoscelis sonorae y A. flagellicauda, aunque morfolgicamente distintas, no son significativamente diferentes en tamao corporal de madurez sexual ni en el tamao promedio de la nidada. Lo mismo se present entre los patrones de coloracin corporal de A. sonorae.
3672784|A population of the parthenogenetic teiid lizard, Aspidoscelis tesselata, was recently discovered in the vicinity of Benavides, Chihuahua, Mxico. This population is located in the general area where A. tesselata originated, as a parthenogenetically competent F<sub>1</sub> hybrid, from hybridization between A. tigris marmorata and A. gularis septemvittata. Subsequent to its origin, A. tesselata utilized habitats associated with the Rio Grande and Pecos River drainages to expand its range into New Mexico. We used a canonical variate analysis of samples from Chihuahua, Mxico, and the Rio Grande and Pecos River distribution corridors in southern New Mexico to determine the pattern of morphological variation among the 4 populations. The 2 populations from New Mexico were divergent, both from the Chihuahuan populations (which were morphologically similar) and from each other. A male specimen, collected with A. tesselata in the Benavides vicinity, was identified as a putative A. tesselata  A. tigris marmorata hybrid. /// Una poblacin de la lagartija tida partenogentica Aspidoscelis tesselata, fue recientemente descubierta en los alrededores de Benavides, Chihuahua, Mxico. Esta poblacin est localizada en el rea ms o menos donde A. tesselata se origin, como un hbrido F<sub>1</sub> partenogenticamente viable, de la hibridacin entre A. tigris marmorata y A. gularis septemvittata. Subsecuentemente a su origen, A. tesselata utilizaba los hbitats asociados con las cuencas del Ro Grande y del Ro Pecos para extender su distribucin a Nuevo Mxico. Utilizamos un anlisis de variables cannicas de muestreos de Chihuahua, Mxico, y de los corredores de distribucin del Ro Grande y del Ro Pecos en el sur de Nuevo Mxico para determinar el patrn de variacin morfolgica entre las 4 poblaciones. Las 2 poblaciones de Nuevo Mxico divergieron tanto de las poblaciones de Chihuahua (las cuales fueron morfolgicamente similares) como entre ellas mismas. Un espcimen macho, recolectado con A. tesselata en los alrededores de Benavides, fue verificado como un posible hbrido de A. tesselata  A. tigris marmorata.
3672785|We describe a new subspecies of Sceloporus merriami from extreme southeastern Chihuahua and adjacent Coahuila. We discuss the derivation of the 7 subspecies now know of S. merriami. /// Se describe una nueva subespecie de Sceloporus merriami distribuida en el extremo sureste del estado do Chihuahua y partes adyacentes de Coahuila. Se discute la derivacin de las 7 subespecies de S. merriami que hasta ahora se conocen.
3672786|Micrurus pachecogili is a rare coralsnake that inhabits the desert region around Zapotitln Salinas in southern Puebla, Mexico. The original description of this species was based on 2 specimens. We report on morphological variation, sexual dimorphism, and distribution based on 4 additional specimens. Males have 218-223 ventrals, 43-48 subcaudals, and 24-30 black body rings; females have 235-242 ventrals, 37-39 subcaudals, and 29-30 black body rings. This new material was collected at localities within the Zapotitln Basin. The coralsnake most similar to M. pachecogili seems to be M. nebularis, which is restricted to pine-oak forest near Ixtln de Jurez in central Oaxaca. Micrurus nebularis is easily distinguished in having fewer ventrals (203-208 in males and 218-223 in females). /// Micrurus pachecogili es una especie rara de coral que habita la regin desrtica alrededor de Zapotitln Salinas en el sur de Puebla, Mxico. La descripcin original de esta especie fue basada en 2 ejemplares. Reportamos la variacin morfolgica, el dimorfismo sexual, y la distribucin de 4 ejemplares adicionales. Los machos tienen 218-223 ventrales, 43-48 subcaudales y 24-30 anillos negros en el cuerpo, mientras que las hembras poseen 235-242 ventrales, 37-39 subcaudales y 29-30 anillos negros. Este material nuevo fue colectado en varias localidades en la cuenca de Zapotitln. La especie de coral ms similar a M. pachecogili parece ser M. nebularis, la cual est restringida a los bosques de pino-encino cerca de Ixtln de Jurez en Oaxaca central. Micrurus nebularis se distingue fcilmente por poseer menos ventrales (203-208 en machos y 218-223 en hembras).
3672787|A list of 13 noteworthy bird species records from the state of Tamaulipas, Mxico, is presented. Two records (Agamia agami and Aquila chrysaetos) are new for the state, and the remaining 11 extend significantly their distributional range. /// Se presenta un listado de registros notables de distribucin para 13 especies de aves en Tamaulipas, Mxico. Dos de los cuales (Agamia agami y Aquila chrysaetos) son nuevos para el estado y los restantes 11 extienden significativamente su rea de distribucin.
3672788|Flight speeds of Davy's naked-backed bat (Pteronotus davyi), Wagner's mustached bat (P. personatus), Parnell's mustached bat (P. parnellii), and Peter's leaf-chinned bat (Mormoops megalophylla) were studied in Colima, Mexico, during January 2000. Bats were assessed in a simulated cave passage cleared in a dense thorn forest. Rates of travel over a known distance were measured using stopwatches. Individual flight speeds varied from 7.4 (female P. davyi) to 30.6 km/h (male M. megalophylla); mean flight speeds ranged from 11.3 (male P. davyi) to 19.1 km/h (female P. parnellii). There was a positive correlation between mean forearm length and mean flight speed. Larger bats flew faster than smaller ones. Results of this investigation provide the first report of flight speed for female P. davyi (13.1 km/h) and extend our knowledge concerning the flight speeds of other taxa studied. /// Se estudi la velocidad del vuelo de los murcilagos Pteronotus davyi, P. personatus, P. parnellii y Mormoops megalophylla, en Colima, Mxico, durante enero del 2000. La velocidad del vuelo a travs de una longitud conocida se midi por cronmetros en un tnel, construido entre vegetacin secundaria espinosa que simulaba el paso de una cueva. La velocidad de individuos vari de 7.4 (P. davyi, hembra) a 30.6 km/h (M. megalophylla, macho); los promedios de velocidad variaron de 11.3 (P. davyi, macho) a 19.1 km/h (P. parnellii, hembra). Hubo una correlacin positiva entre la longitud media del antebrazo y la velocidad media. Los murcilagos ms grandes volaron ms rpido que los ms pequeos. Los resultados de nuestro estudio aportan el primer registro de la velocidad de vuelo de las hembras de P. davyi (13.1 km/h) y amplan nuestro conocimiento de la velocidad del vuelo de los otros taxa estudiados.
3672789|During a survey of the biota of part of Kisatchie National Forest, Louisiana, 3 specimens of Myotis septentrionalis were collected and are the first records of the species from Louisiana. Two males and 1 female were collected on 3 nights. The female is the earliest record (10 May) of lactation for M. septentrionalis. Caves known in Louisiana are 55 to 87 km from the Winn Parish collection site, but use of these caves by M. septentrionalis has not been documented. Based on the discovery of M. septentrionalis in Louisiana, it is necessary to reevaluate the southern boundary of the distribution of this species. /// Durante un muestreo de la flora y fauna de una parte del Bosque Nacional de Kisatchie, se recogieron 3 ejemplares de Myotis septentrionalis, los cuales son los primeros registros de esta especie en Louisiana. Se recogieron dos machos y una hembra durante 3 noches. La hembra es el registro ms temprano (10 de mayo) de lactacin para M. septentrionalis. Las cuevas conocidas en Louisiana estn de 55 a 87 km del sitio de recogimiento en la Parroquia Winn, pero no se ha documentado el uso de estas cuevas por M. septentrionalis. Basndose en el descubrimiento de M. septentrionalis en Louisiana, es necesario reevaluar el lmite meridional de la distribucin de la especie.
3672790|Previous studies have documented the presence of the prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster) in the extreme northern panhandle of Texas and north-central Oklahoma, and specimens have been collected from the Oklahoma Panhandle region. In July 2000, 2 prairie voles were captured in Carson County, Texas, 80 km south of the previously reported southern range. Additionally, barn owl (Tyto alba) pellets collected from the northern Texas Panhandle and western Oklahoma Panhandle contained prairie vole remains. These remains represent the first records of the prairie vole in Cimarron County, Oklahoma, and Dallam and Sherman counties, Texas, and a new western limit for the prairie vole in Texas and Oklahoma. The specimens collected likely represent a recent southwestern range expansion of the prairie vole in the shortgrass prairies of the Texas and Oklahoma panhandles. /// Estudios previos han documentado la presencia del metorito de las praderas (Microtus ochrogaster) en la regin noroeste extrema de Texas y el centro-norte de Oklahoma, y unos especimenes se han colectado en la franja noroeste de Oklahoma. En julio del 2000, 2 metoritos de las praderas fueron capturados en el condado de Carson, Texas, 80 km al sur de la distribucin previamente reportada. Adicionalmente, regurgitados de la lechuza Tyto alba colectados de la regin noroeste extrema de Texas y de la franja noroeste de Oklahoma contuvieron restos del metorito de las praderas. Estos restos representan los primeros registros del metorito de las praderas en los condados de Cimarron, Oklahoma, y de Dallam y Sherman, Texas, y un nuevo lmite occidental para el metorito de las praderas en Texas y Oklahoma. Los especimenes colectados probablemente representan una reciente expansin distribucional hacia el sur-oeste del metorito de las praderas en las planicies de pasto corto de los extremos noroeste de Texas y de Oklahoma.
3672791|We identified species of fleas found in New Mexico on kit foxes (Vulpes macrotis), swift foxes (V. velox), red foxes (V. vulpes), and gray foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus). Pulex irritans and P. simulans were the fleas found most commonly. All species found, except 2, are known to carry plague, and we found fleas on foxes throughout New Mexico capable of carrying plague, which occurs in every county of New Mexico. Thus, every fox in New Mexico should be considered a potential carrier of plague. /// Identificamos especies de pulgas encontradas en Nuevo Mxico en la zorra del desierto (Vulpes macrotis), la zorra de pradera (V. velox), la zorra roja (V. vulpes) y la zorra gris (Urocyon cinereoargenteus). Pulex irritans y P. simulans fueron las pulgas ms frecuentemente halladas. Se sabe que todas las especies encontradas, excepto dos, transportan la plaga, y encontramos pulgas en zorros de todas partes de Nuevo Mxico capaces de trasportar la plaga, la cual puede ocurrir en cualquier condado de Nuevo Mxico. Entonces, cada zorro de Nuevo Mxico se debe considerar un portador potencial de la plaga.
3672792|We report observations and quantification of white nosed coatis (Nasua narica) using century plants (Agave palmeri) as a novel food source in Arizona. After observing a female coati eating in century plants, we inspected all flowering century plants in areas of coati activity for presence of scratch marks. Use of agaves by coatis was relatively common. Coatis climbed plants with large diameter at breast height relative to unscratched plants, but did not preferentially use agaves based on height or number of flower aggregations. Agaves in areas of high coati activity were more likely to possess scratch marks. Flowering agaves contain nectar, pollen, and arthropod species, all of which likely provide nutrition. The opportunistic foraging and willingness of coatis to experiment with unique food sources might partially explain the expansive distribution of the species under a wide variety of ecological conditions. /// Describimos y cuantificamos el uso del agave (Agave palmeri) por los pisotes (Nasua narica) como nuevas fuentes alimenticias en Arizona. Despus de observar a una hembra alimentndose de un agave, buscamos los rasguos de pisote en todas las agaves en flor ubicadas en reas utilizadas por pisotes. El uso de las agaves por los pisotes fue relativamente comn. Los pisotes treparon las agaves con el tallo ms grueso en comparacin a las plantas no rascadas, pero no distinguieron entre las plantas segn la altura ni el nmero de agregaciones florales. Las agaves ubicadas en las reas ms utilizadas por los pisotes mostraron ms probabilidad de tener rasguos. Las flores del agave contienen nctar, polen y especies de artrpodos: alimentos potenciales para los pisotes. Puede ser que el forrajeo oportunista y la tendencia a experimentar con nuevas fuentes alimenticias parcialmente expliquen la habilidad del pisote de habitar un rango geogrfico amplio y con diversas condiciones ecolgicas.
3672793|The Sonoran pronghorn (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis), a subspecies in danger of extinction, inhabits an area of the Barry M. Goldwater Range (BMGR) in southwestern Arizona. Since 1941, BMGR has been a training site for military pilots. We evaluated whether this subspecies of pronghorn used areas, as defined by noise levels produced by military aircraft, in proportion to their availability. Radiocollar-equipped pronghorn were monitored during September 1994 to August 1998, and their locations were recorded on a map of sound levels. In general, pronghorn used areas with lower levels of noise (<45 decibels [dB]) more than expected and areas with higher levels (55 dB) less than expected. More intensive monitoring, habitat influences, and additional measurements of noise in the area, could produce a clearer picture of the factors that determine areas of use within the BMGR by Sonoran pronghorn. /// El berrendo Sonorense (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis), una subespecie en peligro de extincin, habita una porcin del rea Barry M. Goldwater Range (BMGR) en el suroeste de Arizona. Desde 1941, BMGR ha sido un sitio de entrenamiento para pilotos militares. Evaluamos si sta subespecie de berrendo usa las reas dentro de BMGR (reas definidas por el nivel de ruido de aviones militares) en proporcin a su disponibilidad. Berrendos equipados con collares con radios fueron monitoreados durante septiembre 1994 y agosto 1998, y sus localizaciones fueron registradas en un mapa de niveles de sonido. Por lo general, los berrendos usaron las reas con menores niveles de ruido (<45 decibeles [dB]) ms de lo esperado, y reas con mayores niveles (55 dB) menos de lo esperado. Un monitoreo ms intenso, la influencia del hbitat y registros adicionales de ruido en el rea, podran dar una figura ms clara de los factores que determinan el uso de las reas dentro de BMGR por el berrendo Sonorense.
3672259|We analyzed pairwise species associations based on presence/absence data from transects of perennial vegetation at 129 sites located in the northern Chihuahuan Desert. The sites were chosen to represent the range of commonly encountered desert vegetation types from grassland to shrubland. Twenty-four significant associations were found, all of which were positive (i.e., the species pairs co-occurred more frequently than would be expected by chance). Some of the species associations identified by our analysis have been noted in the literature previously, but others have not and warrant further investigation. Given the nature and scale of the data used in our analysis, the associations we uncovered most likely represent species with similarities in ecological requirements or tolerances, but might or might not indicate strong interaction at the scale of individual plants. /// Analizamos las asociaciones de pares de especies, usando datos de presencia/ausencia provenientes de transectos de la vegetacin perenne en 129 sitios en el norte del desierto Chihuahuense. Elegimos los sitios para representar toda la variacin de tipos de vegetacin desrtica que se encuentra frecuentemente, desde pastizal hasta matorral. Se encontraron 24 asociaciones significativas, todas positivas (es decir, la concurrencia de los pares de especies fue ms frecuente que la esperada al azar). Algunas de las asociaciones de especies identificadas en el anlisis han sido reportadas previamente en la literatura, pero otras no, sugiriendo ms investigacin. Dada la naturaleza y la cantidad de los datos usados en nuestro anlisis, es muy probable que las asociaciones detectadas representen especies similares en tolerancias o requerimientos ecolgicos, que pueden, o no, indicar una intensa interaccin al nivel de plantas individuales.
3672260|Seed germination of 4 species of Mammillaria (Cactaceae) from the Tehuacn-Cuicatln Valley in central Mxico were compared at 4 light treatments (red, far-red, white light, and darkness) at 25C and at 2 light treatments (white light and darkness) at 2 alternating temperatures (15/30C and 20/35C). Seeds were positive photoblastic, but germinated at far-red light. For all species, best germination results were obtained at 25C with white and red light, and there were no significant differences among treatments. Higher germination percentages were obtained at 25C than at alternating temperatures. None of the species exhibited any morphophysiological mechanisms of dormancy. /// La germinacin de 4 especies del gnero Mammillaria (Cactaceae) del Valle de Tehuacn-Cuicatln, Mxico, se compar en 4 tratamientos: luz roja, roja lejana, blanca y oscuridad a 25C y en luz blanca y oscuridad a 2 temperaturas alternantes (15/30C y 20/35C). Las semillas resultaron ser fotoblsticas positivas, aunque germinaron en rojo lejano. Para todas las especies la mejor germinacin se obtuvo a 25C con luz blanca y luz roja, y no hubo diferencias significativas entre tratamientos. Se obtuvieron porcentajes ms altos de germinacin a 25C que a temperaturas alternantes. Las semillas no presentaron ningn mecanismo de latencia morfofisiolgica.
3672261|The spotted gar, Lepisosteus oculatus, population in the Lake Pontchartrain estuary in southeastern Louisiana was sampled monthly to characterize its reproduction, age, and growth from November 1998 through October 1999. Males ranged from 285 to 568 mm standard length (SL) and 0 to 8 years; females ranged from 395 to 606 mm SL and 0 to 10 years. Both sexes were mature before age 2. Spawning was from February to June, and fecundity was highest during October (mean number of eggs = 13,798  7,654 SE) and lowest during June (mean number of eggs = 1,772  392 SE). Ova diameters varied among months and among individuals within a month. Mean ova diameter during the spawning season was 3.02 mm  0.02 SE. Males grew significantly faster than females, but had a shorter lifespan. Condition was generally lowest during fall and varied by sex among seasons. /// La poblacin del pez aguja Lepisosteus oculatus del Lago Pontchartrain en el sureste de Louisiana fue muestreada cada mes para conocer la reproduccin, edad, y crecimiento de noviembre 1998 hasta octubre 1999. Los machos variaron de 285 a 568 mm de longitud estndar (LE) y de 0 a 8 aos; las hembras variaron de 395 a 606 mm LE y de 0 a 10 aos. Ambos sexos maduraron antes de los 2 aos de edad. La estacin de reproduccin fue de febrero a junio, y la fecundad fue ms alta en octubre (nmero promedio de huevos = 13,798  7654 EE) y ms baja en junio (nmero promedio de huevos = 1,772  392 EE). El tamao de los huevos vari entre meses y entre individuos en el mismo mes. El dimetro promedio de los huevos durante la poca de reproduccin fue 3.02 mm  0.02 EE. Los machos crecieron ms rpido que las hembras, pero su vida fue ms corta. La condicin fue generalmente ms baja en el otoo y vari por sexo entre estaciones.
3672262|In the southwestern United States and northern Mexico, obligate brood parasitic bronzed cowbirds (Molothrus aeneus) and brown-headed cowbirds (M. ater) are sympatric and parasitize some of the same host species. Host species selection is driven, in part, by cowbird breeding habitat preferences, yet little is known about bronzed cowbird habitat selection, and no study has quantified bronzed cowbird and brown-headed cowbird habitat selection in sympatry. During 1998 and 1999, I compared the abundance and distribution of brown-headed cowbirds and bronzed cowbirds and the hosts they parasitize across 151 point-count locations in 10 major habitat types in the Huachuca Mountains and San Pedro River valley of southeastern Arizona. These sympatric brood parasites overlapped extensively in 4 of 10 habitats surveyed (pine-oak forest, urban, montane riparian, and foothill riparian). Passerine species richness was a better predictor of brown-headed cowbird and bronzed cowbird presence than host abundance. When combined with distance to foraging area and habitat type, passerine species richness was the best predictor of cowbird presence in logistic regression models. /// En el suroeste de los Estados Unidos y el norte de Mxico los parsitos de incubacin obligados de los vaqueros ojirrojos (Molothrus aeneus) y los vaqueros cabecicaf (M. ater) son simptricos y parasitan algunas de las mismas especies huspedes. La seleccin de las especies huspedes depende, en parte, en las preferencias del hbitat de anidacin de los vaqueros, pero se sabe poco sobre la seleccin del hbitat del vaquero ojirrojo y ningn estudio ha cuantificado la seleccin del hbitat del vaquero cabecicaf y vaquero ojirrojo en simpatria. De 1998-1999 compar la abundancia y la distribucin de los vaqueros ojirrojos y los vaqueros cabecicaf y sus huspedes que ellos parasitan en 151 sitios en los 10 tipos de hbitat ms importantes en las montaas de Huachuca y el valle del ro de San Pedro en el suroeste de Arizona. Estos parsitos de incubacin simptricos se sobrepusieron mucho en 4 de los 10 hbitats estudiados (bosque pino-roble, urbano, montaoso riparia, y falda riparia). La riqueza de las especies paseriformes fue el mejor indicador de la presencia de los vaqueros cabecicaf y de los vaqueros ojirrojos que la abundancia de las especies huspedes. Cuando se combinaron la distancia al rea de forraje y el tipo de hbitat, la riqueza de las especies paseriformes fue el mejor indicador de la presencia de los vaqueros en modelos de regresiones logsticas.
3672263|The distribution of the Altamira oriole (Icterus gularis) in the United States is restricted to the Lower Rio Grande Valley of southernmost Texas. Our objective was to assess the current breeding status of this species at and near Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge (SANWR), a principal nesting area in the region. During each breeding season from 1997 to 1999, we attempted to find and monitor all Altamira oriole nests in and within 0.5 km of SANWR to determine annual breeding-pair abundance, annual nest-site distribution, and nest distribution among tree species. We estimated that there were 6 or 7, 8 or 9, and 6 or 7 breeding pairs in 1997, 1998, and 1999, respectively. Of the 26 nests found, 12 (46%) were next to the Rio Grande and 7 (27%) were at the edge of a major wetland within the refuge. Only 1 of the other 7 nests was more than 115 m inside the refuge. Nests (n = 26) were distributed among Salix nigra (39%), Fraxinus berlandieriana (23%), Acacia minuata (19%), Celtis laevigata (8%), Ulmus crassifolia (8%), and Chloroleucon ebano (4%). Comparisons of results with historical accounts suggest a decline in annual breeding abundance and nest-site availability at SANWR since the early 1970s. /// La distribucin del bolsero Icterus gularis en los Estados Unidos est restringida a la cuenca ro abajo del ro Grande del extremo sur del estado de Texas. Nuestro objetivo fue evaluar el estatus reproductivo actual de esta especie en y cerca del Refugio Nacional de Fauna Silvestre Santa Ana (SANWR), un rea principal de anidacin en la regin. Durante cada poca reproductiva desde 1997 hasta 1999, intentamos localizar y observar todos los nidos de I. gularis que estaban dentro y a 0.5 km de SANWR para determinar la abundancia anual de las parejas reproductivas, la distribucin anual de los sitios de anidacin, y la distribucin de los nidos entre las especies de rboles. Estimamos que fueron 6  7, 8  9, y 6  7 parejas reproductivas en 1997, 1998, y 1999, respectivamente. De los 26 nidos encontrados, 12 (46%) estuvieron adyacentes al ro Grande y 7 (27%) estuvieron en el borde de un pantano grande dentro del refugio. Solamente 1 de los otros 7 nidos estuvo a ms de 115 m dentro del refugio. Los nidos (n = 26) fueron distribuidos entre Salix nigra (39%), Fraxinus berlandieriana (23%), Acacia minuata (19%), Celtis laevigata (8%), Ulmus crassifolia (8%), y Chloroleucon ebano (4%). Comparaciones de los resultados con cuentas anteriores sugieren una disminucin en la abundancia reproductiva anual y en la disponibilidad de los sitios de anidacin en SANWR desde principios de la dcada de los 1970.
3672264|We assessed population trends of the endangered golden-cheeked warbler (Dendroica chrysoparia) at Fort Hood, Texas, using point-count data from 1992 through 2001. We assessed the effect of a large-scale fire in 1996 on these population trends and the effect of military training activities on relative abundance of golden-cheeked warblers. Results indicated that the population has increased steadily at Fort Hood during the 10-yr period. The 1996 fire might have caused a decrease in detections from 1996 through 2001, but excluding any localized effects of the fire, population size continued to increase. Analyses of data from areas with and without military training detected no effect of these activities on the relative abundance of golden-cheeked warblers. Habitat protection and a cowbird-control program might have contributed to the increasing population of golden-cheeked warblers at Fort Hood during the period of study. Data on population trends, demography, and factors limiting population size are needed from other areas to understand more fully the threats to and management needs of the golden-cheeked warbler. /// Evaluamos las tendencias poblacionales de la reinita pechinegra (Dendroica chrysoparia) en Fort Hood, Texas, usando conteos por puntos desde 1992 hasta el 2001. Evaluamos el efecto que tuvo un incendio a gran escala en 1996 en las tendencias de esta poblacin y el efecto de actividades de entrenamiento militar en la abundancia relativa de la reinita pechinegra. Los resultados indican que el tamao de la poblacin ha aumentado consistentemente en Fort Hood durante 10 aos. El incendio de 1996 puede haber causado una disminucin en detecciones desde 1996 hasta el 2001, pero fuera de cualquier efecto local del incendio, el tamao de la poblacin sigui aumentando. Los anlisis de los datos de reas con entrenamiento militar, o sin este, no detectaron ningn efecto de estas actividades en la abundancia relativa de la reinita pechinegra. La proteccin del hbitat y el programa de control de los pjaros vaqueros pueden haber contribuido al aumento de la poblacin de la reinita pechinegra en Fort Hood durante el estudio. Se necesitan datos de otras reas sobre las tendencias poblacionales, demografia y factores que limitan el tamao de la poblacin para entender mejor las amenazas a y las necesidades de manejo de la reinita pechinegra.
3672265|Diets of double-crested cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) wintering on the central Texas coast were determined from the contents of 51 stomachs from Lavaca Bay and 28 stomachs from upper Laguna Madre. Diets consisted primarily of striped mullet (Mugil cephalus) and Gulf menhaden (Brevoortia patronus) in Lavaca Bay and striped mullet and Gulf toadfish (Opsanus beta) in upper Laguna Madre. Birds seemed to prefer striped mullet in both bays, and these fish were significantly larger than the other fish consumed. There were no differences between bays in the numbers of fish in bird stomachs; however, fish consumed by birds in upper Laguna Madre were larger than those taken by birds in Lavaca Bay. Based on the results of this study, there is no evidence that double-crested cormorants pose a significant threat to commercial or sport fisheries on the Texas Gulf Coast. /// La dieta del cormorn Phalacrocorax auritus que inverna en la costa central de Texas fue determinada de los contenidos de 51 estmagos de aves de la Baha Lavaca y 28 de la Laguna Madre superior. La dieta consiste principalmente de la lisa (Mugil cephalus) y del mamiche (Brevoortia patronus) en la Baha Lavaca; en la Laguna Madre superior consiste de lisa y de pez sapo (Opsanus beta). Las aves mostraron preferencias por la lisa en ambas bahas y el tamao de la lisa en los contenidos estomacales fue significativamente ms grande que el de los otros peces. No se encontraron diferencias en los nmeros de peces en los estmagos de aves de ambas bahas; sin embargo, el tamao de los peces consumidos por las aves en la Laguna Madre fue significativamente ms grande que el de las aves de la Baha Lavaca. Con base a los resultados de este estudio, no se encontr evidencia de que este cormorn amenaza de manera significativa a la pesquera comercial o deportiva en la costa de Texas.
3672266|We examined morphological characteristics, abundance, survival rates, and causes of mortality for striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) in the Southern High Plains region of Texas during 1994 and 1995. We captured 69 male skunks 133 times and 35 female skunks 57 times on 4 <tex-math>$12.8\text{-km}^{2}$</tex-math> plots. Estimates of abundance on plots ranged from 0.10 to <tex-math>$0.71\ \text{skunks}/\text{km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Annual survival rates were 0.40 in 1994 and 0.48 in 1995. Survival curves did not differ significantly between years. From the 26 recovered carcasses, 50% of skunks died from human-caused trauma. Shooting of skunks around occupied houses was the largest single cause of mortality. /// Examinamos las caractersticas morfolgicas, la abundancia, la tasa de supervivencia y las causas de la mortalidad para los zorrillos rayados (Mephitis mephitis) en la zona de los llanos altos del sur de Texas durante 1994 y 1995. Capturamos 69 zorrillos 133 veces y 35 zorrillas 57 veces en cuatro parcelas de <tex-math>$12.8\ \text{km}^{2}$</tex-math> cada uno. Estimaciones de la abundancia en las parcelas variaron entre 0.10 a <tex-math>$0.71\ \text{zorrillos}/\text{km}^{2}$</tex-math>. La tasa anual de supervivencia vari entre 0.40 en 1994 y 0.48 en 1995. Las curvas estadsticas de supervivencia no variaron significativamente entre aos. De los 26 muertos recobrados, 50% de los zorrillos murieron a causa de trauma infligido por seres humanos. La principal causa de la mortalidad fue la matanza de zorrillos alrededor de casas ocupadas.
3672267|We found 44 Corynorhinus rafinesquii and 1 Myotis austroriparius tree roosts during the summer of 2000 on D'Arbonne National Wildlife Refuge in northeastern Louisiana. Corynorhinus rafinesquii and M. austroriparius are species of concern throughout their range. Little information exists on tree roosts of either species. The roost trees found in our study were hollow Nyssa aquatica with triangular-shaped basal openings, and all were located within a 5-ha tupelo stand. A high density of large-diameter cavity trees and a closed canopy characterized this stand. A canal bisected the stand and provided a source of permanent water. Roost trees and non-roost trees could not be compared due to biases in sampling technique. More research directed at roost selection factors by these bats is needed to form conservation plans; however, preliminary information indicates many, large-diameter cavity trees, especially Nyssa tree species, within bottomland hardwood forests are important as tree roosts for these bats. /// Encontramos 44 dormideros arbreos de Corynorhinus rafinesquii y uno de Myotis austroriparius durante el verano del 2000 en el Refugio Nacional de Fauna Silvestre D'Arbonne en el noroeste de Louisiana. Corynorhinus rafinesquii y M. austroriparius son especies catalogadas de inters por toda su extensin. Existe poca informacin sobre los dormideros arbreos de cualquiera de las dos especies. Los rboles en que se encontraron los dormideros fueron los de Nyssa aquatica ahuecados, con aberturas triangulares basares, y todos fueron ubicados dentro de un soto de nisas de tamao de 5 hectreas. Este soto se caracteriz por una alta densidad de rboles de gran dimetro con huecos y con un dosel completo. El soto fue cruzado por un canal, que provey una fuente permanente de agua. Los rboles con dormideros no pudieron ser comparados con los rboles sin dormideros a causa de diferencias en las tcnicas de muestreo. Para formar un programa de conservacin, se necesita ms investigacin sobre los factores pertinentes a la seleccin de dormideros por estos murcilagos; pero la informacin preliminar indica que para dormideros de estos murcilagos, es importante tener muchos rboles de gran dimetro con huecos, especialmente del gnero Nyssa, dentro de los bosques caducifolios de tierra baja.
3672268|We examined factors influencing foraging behavior of lesser long-nosed bats, Leptonycteris curasoae, in southeastern Arizona. When L. curasoae are present in this region, their diet is restricted to nectar and pollen from 1 species, Agave palmeri, which has heightened conservation concerns for the plant as forage for this endangered bat. We found that visitation rates of L. curasoae to individual A. palmeri near a roost were high (mean = 273  17 visits per plant per hour) and varied with the spatial distribution and morphological characteristics of individual plants. Specifically, visitation rates varied with time of night, distance and orientation from the bat roost, and number and relative vertical position of flowers along the inflorescence. We suggest that both spatial distribution and temporal variation in flowering chronology be considered when developing strategies to manage A. palmeri to support L. curasoae. /// Examinamos los factores que influyen el comportamiento de forrajeo de los murcilagos-hocicudos de Curazao, Leptonycteris curasoae, en el sureste de Arizona. Cuando L. curasoae est presente en esta regin, su alimentacin est limitada al nctar y polen de una especie, Agave palmeri, lo que ha incrementado las acciones de conservacin para la planta de la cual se alimenta este murcilago amenazado. Encontramos que la taza de visita de murcilagos a individuos de A. palmeri cerca del dormidero fue alta (promedio = 273  17 visitas por planta por hora) y variaron con la distribucin espacial de las plantas y por las caractersticas morfolgicas de plantas individuales. Especficamente, las tasas de visita estuvieron relacionadas a la hora de la noche, a la distancia y orientacin del dormidero, y al nmero y posicin vertical relativa de flores en la inflorescencia. Sugerimos que para el desarrollo de estrategias de manejo de A. palmeri con propsitos de conservacin de L. curasoae, se debe considerar la distribucin espacial y la variacin en la cronologa de afloracin.
3672269|Mammals recovered from archaeological investigations at Bighorn Cave represent the first mid-Holocene to late-Holocene faunal record from the Black Mountains of northwestern Arizona. With 2 exceptions, identified taxa have modern geographic distributions that include the location of the cave. A beaver (Castor canadensis) incisor from the lower shelter of the cave was possibly introduced into the deposit by humans. Microtus teeth from Bighorn Cave represent an extralocal record, and several explanations for their presence at Bighorn Cave are discussed. A new radiocarbon date presented here indicates that post-depositional mixing occurred in portions of the deposit. /// Los mamferos recolectados de las investigaciones arqueolgicas en la Cueva Bighorn representan el primer registro funico de las Montaas Negras del noroeste de Arizona de mediados a fines del Holoceno. A excepcin de dos casos, los taxa que han sido identificados contienen distribuciones geogrficas modernas que incluyen la ubicacin de la cueva. Un incisivo del castor (Castor canadensis) del refugio inferior de la cueva probablemente fue introducido al sedimento por seres humanos. Los dientes de Microtus de la Cueva Bighorn representan un registro fuera de la localidad, y se discuten varias explicaciones de su presencia en la cueva. Una nueva fecha de radiocarbn aqu presentada indica que mezclas pos-depositarias ocurrieron en partes del depsito.
3672270|First record of the robber fly, Microstylum morosum (Diptera: Asilidae), is reported for Arkansas (Clark County). Individuals of this species were observed, and a voucher specimen collected, from a blackland prairie in the southwestern corner of the state. Previously, M. morosum was only known from Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and Colorado. The nearest occurrence to the reported Arkansas record is approximately 200 miles to the west in Texas. /// El primer registro de la mosca Microstylum morosum (Diptera: Asilidae), es registrado para Arkansas (condado de Clark). Se observaron individuos de esta especie, y se colect un ejemplar, de una pradera tierra negra en el rincn suroeste del estado. Previamente, M. morosum era conocida slo en Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas, Nuevo Mxico, Arizona, y Colorado. El registro ms cercano al de Arkansas es de aproximadamente 200 millas al oeste en Texas.
3672271|Cyprinodon rubrofluviatilis (Red River pupfish) is established in a stream tributary to the Cimarron River in Oklahoma. Further work is needed to determine the extent of the distribution of this nonnative species in the Arkansas River system. /// El pez cachorrito, Cyprinodon rubrofluviatilis, est establecido en un arroyo tributario del ro Cimarron de Oklahoma. Hace falta un estudio ms amplio para determinar el alcance de la distribucin de este pez extico en el sistema fluvial del ro Arkansas.
3672272|On 30 September 2000, 8 specimens of Fundulus olivaceus were collected in Shoal Creek, Cherokee County, Kansas. These specimens represent the first record of F. olivaceus in Kansas. /// El 30 de septiembre del 2000, 8 especimenes de Fundulus olivaceus fueron colectados en Shoal Creek, Cherokee County, Kansas. Estos especimenes representan el primer registro de F. olivaceus en Kansas.
3672273|Grass carp, Ctenopharyngodon idella, is an invasive cyprinid that has been stocked throughout the USA for biological control of aquatic macrophytes. Natural reproduction was expected to be limited in the USA due to a lack of long, unimpounded rivers with sufficient flow needed for reproduction. However, natural reproduction has been documented in the Mississippi, Missouri, and Trinity (Texas) rivers. In 2 years of shoreline seining in Lake Texoma (Oklahoma-Texas), we found evidence of natural reproduction by grass carp in the Red and Washita rivers. In 1999 and 2000, we collected 79 juvenile grass carp from 6 of 41 sites sampled in the reservoir. Juvenile length ranged from 15.2 to 60.0 mm total length, with 2 apparent size groups (modes of 18 and 41 mm). Most grass carp juveniles were collected in 2000 in the upper Washita River arm of Lake Texoma. We hypothesize that tributary conditions and littoral habitats in Lake Texoma influenced grass carp abundance and survival. /// La carpa Ctenopharyngodon idella es un ciprnido invasor que ha sido dispersado por todo Estados Unidos como control biolgico de macrfitos acuticos. Se esperaba que su reproduccin natural se limitara en los Estado Unidos debido a la falta de ros largos sin barreras con suficiente corriente para su reproduccin. Sin embargo, se ha documentado su reproduccin natural en los ros Mississippi, Missouri, y Trinity (Texas). En dos aos de muestreo en la orilla del Lago Texoma (Oklahoma-Texas), encontramos evidencia de reproduccin natural de la carpa en los ros Red y Washita. En 1999 y 2000, colectamos 79 carpas juveniles de 6 de 41 sitios muestreados en el embalse. La longitud de los juveniles vari de 15.2 a 60.2 mm en medida total, con 2 grupos aparentes de tamao (modas de 18 y 41 mm). La mayora de los individuos fueron colectados en el 2000 en un afluente superior del ro Washita del Lago Texoma. Supusimos que las condiciones tributarias y los hbitats litorales en el Lago Texoma influyeron en la abundancia y supervivencia de la carpa.
3672274|Prior to 1987, the Pacific treefrog (Pseudacris regilla) was known from only 4 sites on the lower Colorado River, which borders Nevada, California, and Arizona. We conducted surveys on the lower Colorado River from Princess Cove on Lake Mohave to the Bill Williams River confluence and upstream on the Bill Williams River to Planet Ranch from 1987 through 2002, and we consulted museums and herpetologists working in the area for P. regilla localities. We found this frog to be well distributed along 90 km of the lower Colorado River and its backwaters from Davis Camp, just below Davis Dam, to Castle Rock in upper Lake Havasu. We report 33 new localities and confirmed presence at 1 historical site. We found P. regilla primarily in cattail and bulrush marshes along the main channel and in backwaters. What limits its distribution on the lower Colorado River is unknown, because cattail and bulrush marshes occur both north and south of the current range. Pseudacris regilla populations below Davis Dam are probably currently disjunct from those on the Overton Arm of Lake Mead and in the Las Vegas Valley. In Arizona, this species also has been recorded as an apparent introduction at Middle Spring and a nearby stock tank in the Virgin Mountains, Mohave County, and at 2 central Arizona plant nurseries. The species persisted for at least 19 years and successfully bred at 1 nursery, where it was reportedly introduced by frogs hitchhiking on ornamental plants imported from San Diego. /// Antes de 1987, la rana arbrea, Pseudacris regilla, se conoca en slo 4 sitios en el bajo ro Colorado, que linda con Nevada, California y Arizona. Hicimos muestreos en el bajo ro Colorado desde Princess Cove en el Lake Mohave hasta la confluencia del ro Bill Williams y ro arriba en el ro Bill Williams hasta Planet Ranch durante 1987-2002 y consultamos los museos y a los herpetlogos trabajando en el rea por localidades de P. regilla. Encontramos esta rana bien distribuida en los 90 km del bajo ro Colorado y su remanso desde Davis Camp, justo abajo de Davis Dam, hasta Castle Rock en la parte superior del Lake Havasu. Registramos 33 nuevas localidades y confirmamos su presencia en 1 sitio histrico. Encontramos P. regilla principalmente en pantanos de aneas y tules al lado del canal principal y en los remansos. Lo que limita la distribucin de la rana en el bajo ro Colorado es desconocido, porque pantanos de aneas y tules ocurren tanto al norte como al sur de su distribucin actual. Poblaciones de P. regilla debajo Davis Dam probablemente estn separadas actualmente de las de Overton Arm de Lake Mead y las de Las Vegas Valley. En Arizona, esta especie tambin se ha registrado como una introduccin aparente en Middle Spring y en un tanque cercano para ganadera en las Virgin Mountains, condado de Mohave, y en 2 viveros en Arizona central. La especie persisti por lo menos 19 aos y se reprodujo xitosamente en un vivero, donde fue introducida aparentemente por transporte en plantas ornamentales importadas de San Diego.
3672275|According to Dr. Philip Tibbs, past Secretary of the ICZN, and at the time speaking for the Commission, the name Eumeces epipleurotus Cope (1880) has priority over E. gaigeae Taylor (1935). E. epipleurotis is now considered a subspecies of E. multivirgatus. /// Segn el Dr. Philip Tibbs, el anterior Secretario del ICZN, y hablando entonces en nombre de esa Comisin, el nombre Eumeces epipleurotus Cope (1880) tiene prioridad sobre E. gaigeae Taylor (1935). Eumeces epipleurotus se considera ahora una subespecie de E. multivirgatus.
3672276|The gray catbird (Dumetella carolinensis) has been documented visiting and breaking the eggs of artificial nests, but the implications of such observations are unclear because there is little cost in depredating an undefended nest. During the summer of 2001 at Konza Prairie Biological Station, Kansas, we videotaped a gray catbird that broke and consumed at least 1 egg in a brown thrasher (Toxostoma rufum) nest. Our observation was consistent with egg predation because the catbird consumed the contents of the damaged egg after breaking it. The large difference in body mass suggests that a catbird (37 g) destroying eggs in a thrasher (69 g) nest might risk injury if caught in the act of predation and might explain why egg predation by catbirds has been poorly documented. Our observation indicated that the catbird should be considered as an egg predator of natural nests and that single-egg predation of songbird nests should not be attributed to egg removal by female brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater) without additional evidence. /// El pjaro gato gris (Dumetella carolinensis) ha sido documentado visitando y rompiendo los huevos de nidos artificiales, pero las implicaciones de dichas observaciones no son claras porque hay poco costo por depredar un nido sin defensa. Durante el verano de 2001 en Konza Prairie Biological Station en Kansas, filmamos un pjaro gato gris que rompi y consumi por lo menos un huevo en un nido de un cuitlacoche caf (Toxostoma rufum). Nuestra observacin es consistente con la depredacin de huevos porque el pjaro gato consumi el contenido del huevo daado despus de romperlo. La gran diferencia en la masa corporal sugiere que un pjaro gato (37 g) destruyendo los huevos de un nido de cuitlacoche caf (69 g) puede correr el riesgo de ser lastimado si es descubierto en el acto de depredacin y puede explicar porque la depredacin de huevos por pjaros gato ha sido poco documentada. Nuestra observacin indica que el pjaro gato debe ser considerado como depredador de huevos de nidos naturales y que la depredacin de un solo huevo de pjaros cantores no se debe atribuir a la extraccin hecha por una hembra tordo copete caf (Molothrus ater) sin evidencia adicional.
3672277|We recorded for the first time in Cuatro Cienegas Basin, Coahuila, Mexico, 43 species, 33 of them represented by specimens and 10 only by visual observations. These records increase the species known for the basin by 38.4%. The fieldwork was conducted during 1996 and 1997. Two species are new records for the state of Coahuila: Larus atricilla and Camptostoma imberbe. /// Se registran por primera vez para el Valle de Cuatro Cinegas, Coahuila, Mxico, 43 especies, 33 de ellas representadas por ejemplares y 10 slo son observaciones visuales. Con estos registros se eleva en un 38.4% las especies conocidas para el citado valle. El trabajo se efectu entre 1996-1997. Dos especies son nuevos registros para el estado de Coahuila: Larus atricilla y Camptostoma imberbe.
3672278|Interspecific and intraspecific relationships have received much attention from ecologists and play an important role in the structure of wildlife communities, but researchers have rarely attempted to study interactions between phylogenetically unrelated organisms. We observed 6 interactions between badgers (Taxidea taxus) and red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) between February and June 1999 on the Barry M. Goldwater Tactical Range (325306N, 1124324W) near Ajo, Arizona. Each interaction lasted 5 to 20 minutes. Interactions were characterized by a red-tailed hawk following a badger as it searched for prey. On 2 occasions, red-tailed hawks apparently attempted to take prey items escaping from a badger. Badgers and red-tailed hawks feed primarily on small mammals, suggesting possible competition between the 2 species. Further research is needed to determine if badgers and red-tailed hawks in the Sonoran Desert are competing for a limiting resource or if one species (presumably the red-tailed hawk) is benefiting from the interaction without affecting the other species (badger). /// Las relaciones inter e intraespecficas han recibido mucha atencin por parte de eclogos y juegan un papel importante en la estructura de las comunidades de fauna silvestre, pero los investigadores raramente intentan estudiar interacciones entre organismos filogenticamente no relacionados. Observamos 6 interacciones entre tejones (Taxidea taxus) y aguilillas coliroja (Buteo jamaicensis) entre febrero y junio de 1999 en la zona de Barry M. Goldwater Tactical Range (325306N, 1124324O) cerca de Ajo, Arizona. Cada interaccin dur de 5 a 20 minutos. Las interacciones consistieron en el seguimiento de una aguililla coliroja a un tejn mientras buscaba presas. En 2 ocasiones, una aguililla coliroja aparentemente intent tomar una presa que se escapaba del tejn. Los tejones y las aguilillas coliroja se alimentan principalmente de mamferos pequeos, lo que sugiere una posible competencia entre las 2 especies. Se necesita ms investigacin para determinar si los tejones y las aguilillas coliroja en el desierto Sonorense estn compitiendo por un recurso limitado o si una de las especies (presumiblemente la aguililla coliroja) se beneficia de la interaccin sin afectar a la otra especie (el tejn).
3672279|The eastern fox squirrel (Sciurus niger) has continued to move westward along riparian corridors in the southwestern United States. This species is now established along the Arkansas River and its major tributaries in southeastern Colorado. In addition, a population of S. niger exists in northern New Mexico, and this population might be the result of natural expansion from populations along the Purgatoire River in southeastern Colorado. /// El rea de distribucin de la ardilla zorra (Sciurus niger) se ha expandido continuamente hacia el oeste en el suroeste de los Estados Unidos a lo largo de corredores riparios. Esta especie ya est establecida a lo largo del ro Arkansas y en sus tributarios principales en el sureste de Colorado. Adems, una poblacin de S. niger existe en el norte de Nuevo Mxico, y puede ser el resultado de una expansin natural de poblaciones a lo largo del ro Purgatoire del sureste de Colorado.
3672280|We report on intrasexual spatial patterns and dynamic interactions of northern raccoons in eastern Kansas. In general, extensive spatial overlap occurred among female and male dyads in each season and among age classes. The dynamic interaction test revealed positive interaction among 5 of 9 male dyads, and no evidence of negative interaction. Some male dyads denned and traveled together for intervals of varying lengths (2 to 16 days) in each season of the year. There was no evidence of dynamic interaction among female dyads. We provide additional evidence that social behavior of male raccoons exhibits geographic variation, and some level of sociality might be more common than currently described for this species. /// Informamos acerca de patrones espaciales intrasexuales e interacciones dinmicas de los mapaches en el este de Kansas. En general, una extensa superposicin espacial ocurri entre pares de hembras y pares de machos en cada temporada y entre clases de edad. La prueba de la dinmica de la interaccin revel una interaccin positiva entre 5 de 9 pares de machos, y ninguna evidencia de una interaccin negativa. Algunos pares de machos se refugiaron y viajaron juntos por intervalos de longitudes variadas (2 a 16 das) en cada estacin del ao. No hubo evidencia de una interaccin dinmica entre pares de hembras. Proporcionamos evidencia adicional de que la conducta social de mapaches machos exhibe variacin geogrfica, y algn nivel de socializacin puede ser ms comn que lo descrito hoy en da para esta especie.
3672281|This paper reports the first record of the bats Enchisthenes hartii and Natalus stramineus in the state of Hidalgo and of the rodent Nyctomys sumichrasti in the state of Guerrero, Mexico. These records increase the known range of these species. External and cranial measurements and reproductive condition of the specimens are reported. We also include the habitat where they were captured and the presence therein of other small mammals. /// Este estudio registra por primera vez la presencia de los murcilagos Enchisthenes hartii y Natalus stramineus en el estado de Hidalgo y del roedor Nyctomys sumichrasti en el estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Dichos registros aumentan la distribucin conocida de estas especies. Se indican medidas externas y craneales, y la condicin reproductiva de los ejemplares, as como el hbitat en donde fueron capturados y la presencia de otros mamferos pequeos.
3672282|The population dynamics of Peromyscus levipes were studied in a deciduous forest in southeastern Morelos, Mexico. This study was performed at 2 sites, one having relatively little disturbance (low-disturbance site) and the other having extensive disturbance (high-disturbance site). Sampling was conducted from February 1991 through March 1992. At the low-disturbance site, the density in February 1991 was 39 individuals/ha. Although population size fluctuated temporally, it generally declined throughout the study until March 1992 (16 individuals/ha). Sex ratios of the populations were not significantly different. The reproductive pattern exhibited by P. levipes in the low-disturbance site was seasonally polyestrous. In the high-disturbance site, we caught only 6 individuals. /// Se estudi la dinmica poblacional de Peromyscus levipes en dos reas con diferente grado de alteracin en una selva caducifolia al sureste del estado de Morelos, Mxico. El estudio se realiz en un rea poco alterada y otra muy alterada. Los datos se obtuvieron de febrero de 1991 a marzo de 1992. En el rea menos alterada la densidad en febrero de 1991 fue de 39 individuos/ha. A pesar de que la poblacin fluctu temporalmente, en general decreci durante el estudio hasta marzo de 1992 (16 individuos/ha). La proporcin de sexos de las poblaciones no fue significativamente diferente. El patrn reproductor exhibido por P. levipes en el sitio con menor alteracin fue poliestro estacional. En el rea muy alterada slo se capturaron 6 individuos.
3672283|We report the first record of the Inyo shrew, Sorex tenellus, from the central Great Basin. A single specimen was captured in Great Basin National Park at 3,000 m elevation in habitat dominated by Picea engelmanni. This constitutes a northeastern range extension of 300 km into east-central Nevada. /// Presentamos el primer registro de una musaraa, Sorex tenellus, en la zona central del Great Basin. El espcimen fue capturado dentro del Great Basin National Park a una elevacin de 3,000 m en un bosque de Picea engelmannii. Este expediente extiende la distribucin conocida de la especie 300 km noreste hasta la zona este-central de Nevada.
3672683|Vegetation recovery following a wildfire in vegetated flats and secondary dunes of Padre Island National Seashore, Texas, was studied from January 2000 to January 2002. Species richness, diversity, evenness, abundance, and importance were evaluated. Species richness, diversity, and evenness were restored quickly in vegetated flats (51 days) and secondary dunes (71 days). The burned secondary dune site had the same dominant species as its non-burned counterpart from the beginning to the end of the study, but it took 106 days for the dominant species to be restored in the burned vegetated flats. No exotic species established in burned sites. Two years post-fire, community similarity was high between burned and non-burned sites in both the vegetated flats and secondary dunes. One year after the fire, cover contributed by live plants was virtually identical on the burned and non-burned secondary dunes. On the vegetated flats, live plant cover on the burned site exceeded live plant cover on the non-burned site. Two years after the fire, the dead plant biomass and standing dead plant cover were still markedly lower on the burned sites in both the vegetated flats and secondary dunes. /// La recuperacin de la vegetacin despus de una quema en reas planas vegetadas y en dunas secundarias de la Costa Nacional de la Isla de Padre, Texas, fue estudiada de enero del 2000 a enero de 2002. La riqueza, la diversidad, la uniformidad, la abundancia y la importancia de las especies fueron evaluadas. La riqueza, la diversidad y la uniformidad de las especies fueron restauradas rpidamente en las reas planas vegetadas (51 das) y en las dunas secundarias (71 das). La duna secundaria quemada tena las mismas especies dominantes que sus contrapartes no-quemadas del principio al final del estudio, pero tom 106 das para que las especies dominantes fueran restauradas en las reas planas vegetadas. No se establecieron especies exticas en los sitios quemados. Dos aos despus del fuego, la semejanza de la comunidad era alta entre sitios quemados y no quemados en ambas reas planas vegetadas y dunas secundarias. Un ao despus del fuego, la cubierta contribuida por las plantas vivas era virtualmente idntica en dunas secundarias quemadas y no quemadas. En las reas vegetadas planas la cubierta vegetal de los sitios quemados excedi la cubierta vegetal de los sitios no quemados. Dos aos despus del fuego, la biomasa de las plantas muertas y la cubierta de plantas muertas eran todava marcadamente ms bajas en los sitios quemados en ambas reas vegetadas planas y en las dunas secundarias.
3672684|Mixed diets can allow generalist insect herbivores to obtain nutritionally balanced resources or dilute toxins from specific foods, but also present the generalist with greater challenges in decision-making and require a greater ability to detoxify a wide range of plant defensive compounds. Young and small generalist larvae can have different nutritional requirements, ability to detoxify compounds, and mobility compared to older and larger larvae. In this field study, I asked how larval size affected performance of the woolly bear (Platyprepia virginalis), a generalist herbivore, on a uniform diet of bush lupine (Lupinus arboreus) compared to a mixed diet including bush lupine. Large larvae had greater survival on the mixed diet treatment compared to the lupine-only diet, but survival of small larvae did not vary with diet. Larval size also influenced growth on each diet, but this effect varied with year. In 1997, large larvae had higher growth on a lupine-only diet compared to a mixed diet, whereas small larvae had equivalent growth on both diets. In 1998, larvae of each size did not differ in their response to diet treatments. In the field, large larvae apparently eat a more diverse diet than small larvae, which contrasts with the growth result for 1997. This suggests that factors other than growth, such as parasitism or predation, might influence choice of host plants. /// Una dieta mixta puede permitir a los herbvoros obtener recursos nutritivamente balanceados o diluir toxinas de alimentos especficos, pero tambin presentan ms retos para el herbvoro al tomar decisiones y requieren de una mayor capacidad para neutralizar una mayor cantidad de compuestos defensivos de las plantas. Larvas generalistas jvenes y pequeas pueden tener diferentes requerimientos nutricionales, capacidades para neutralizar compuestos, y movilidad en comparacin con larvas ms viejas y grandes. En este estudio de campo, investigu cmo el tamao de la larva afecta la funcin de la oruga Platyprepia virginalis, un herbvoro generalista, con una dieta uniforme de lupino arbusto, Lupinus arboreus, comparada con una dieta mixta que incluye lupino. Larvas grandes sobrevivieron mejor con la dieta mixta que la dieta de solamente lupino, aunque la supervivencia de larvas pequeas no vari con dieta. El tamao de la larva tambin influy el crecimiento con cada dieta, pero esto dependi en el ao. En 1997, larvas grandes tuvieron ms crecimiento con la dieta de slo lupino comparada con la dieta mixta, mientras que la dieta no afect el crecimiento de larvas pequeas. En 1998, la dieta no tuvo efecto sobre las larvas de ninguno de los tamaos. Bajo condiciones naturales parece que las larvas grandes tienen una dieta ms diversa que las larvas pequeas, lo que difiere con los resultados de crecimiento de 1997. Esto sugiere que existen otros factores aparte del crecimiento, tales como el parasitismo o la depredacin, que pueden influir en la eleccin de la planta hospedera.
3672685|We compared several external morphological features for determining sex of adult fall-run chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tschawytscha) migrating to spawning grounds in the Central Valley of California. Adult fish carcasses of known sex were measured at fish hatcheries or during angler surveys. These data were used to develop predictive morphometric discriminant function models for potential incorporation in an automated monitoring system. The best predictor for determining sex of handled fish was snout length to fork length ratio, which correctly classified 96% of individuals tested. In contrast, adipose fin length to fork length ratio was the best predictor of sex when measurements were obtained from video images at a fish passage facility. Of these fish, 86% were correctly identified. Combining both ratios with a third (head length) increased model accuracy to 92% for video images. /// Comparamos el uso de varias caractersticas morfolgicas externas para determinar el sexo de adultos de salmones (Oncorhynchus tschawytscha) durante su migracin otoal rumbo a su sitio de desove en el Valle Central de California. Cadveres de peces adultos de sexo conocido se midieron en criaderos de pez o durante entrevistas con pescadores. Estos datos se usaron para hacer modelos morfomtricos de prediccin de funcin discriminante. El mejor pronosticador para determinar el sexo fue la proporcin de la longitud del hocico a la longitud corporal (hasta la bifurcacin del ala caudal), que clasific correctamente 96% de los individuos probados. En contraste, la proporcin de la longitud de la aleta adiposa a la longitud corporal (hasta la bifurcacin del ala caudal) fue el mejor pronosticador del sexo de adultos salmnidos cuando las medidas se obtuvieron de imgenes de video en una facilidad del pasaje de pez. De stos peces, 86% fueron identificados correctamente. Al combinar ambas proporciones con una tercera (usando la longitud de la cabeza) la precisin del modelo aument hasta 92% para imgenes de video.
3672686|We estimated ages of Colorado pikeminnow, Ptychocheilus lucius, by counting annuli in scales, vertebral centra, whole otoliths, and thin otolith sections. Vertebrae provided the most precise estimator of age and the range of ages obtained were highly correlated with total length. Ages estimated from sectioned otoliths were ranked second in precision and strongly correlated with vertebral ages. Ages read from scales underestimated vertebral ages, and ages estimated from whole otoliths were most variable and least related to total length. Ages estimated using all 4 structures from the same individuals revealed a close relationship between ages estimated with vertebrae and sectioned otoliths. /// Estimamos las edades de salmn blanco, Ptychocheilus lucius, contando anillos en escamas, en la parte central de vrtebras, en otolitos enteros, y en secciones finas de otolitos. Las vrtebras proporcionaron el clculo ms preciso de la edad y el rango de edades obtenidas fue altamente correlacionado con la longitud total. Edades calculadas de otolitos seccionados fueron situadas en segundo lugar en precisin y altamente correlacionadas con las edades vertebrales. Las edades obtenidas de escamas subestimaron las edades vertebrales, y edades estimadas de los otolitos enteros fueron ms variables y menos relacionadas a la longitud total. Las edades estimadas usando las cuatro estructuras del mismo individuo revelaron una relacin cercana entre edades estimadas con vrtebras y otolitos seccionados.
3672687|Breeding migrations of the ringed salamander (Ambystoma annulatum) occur in autumn during rainy nights, when adults move in phalanxes toward small, fishless ponds. We intercepted ringed salamanders on their breeding migration in 1997 and 1998 as they crossed a paved road close to their 0.11-ha breeding pond. In 1997, we measured over 100 salamanders and found larger individuals of both sexes moved earlier in the migration, and females averaged larger than males in both weight and length. In 1998, we counted 1,096 salamanders moving towards the pond and 135 post-breeding animals as they emigrated back to their woodland habitat. Males dominated the first migration event of the 1998 season (73%) and females the last major phalanx (72%), but by the end of the migration season sex ratios were equal. A model predicted 9,848 ringed salamanders crossed the road to breed in this pond in 1998. Our sampling accounted for only 12% of post-breeding salamanders moving away from the pond, suggesting emigration is less directed than immigration. We found 61 ringed salamanders dead on the highway in 1998, indicating a 0.62% mortality due to vehicles. /// Las migraciones reproductivas de la salamandra Ambystoma annulatum ocurren en el otoo durante noches lluviosas, cundo adultos se desplazan en grupos compactos hacia pequeas charcas que no tienen peces. Interceptamos a las salamandras en su migracin reproductiva en 1997 y 1998 cuando cruzaron un camino pavimentado cerca de su charca reproductiva de 0.11 ha. En 1997, medimos ms de 100 salamandras y encontramos que los individuos ms grandes de ambos sexos emigraron ms temprano y las hembras tendan a ser ms grandes que los machos en peso y en longitud. En 1998, contamos 1,096 salamandras llegando a la charca y 135 animales ya postreproductivos regresando a su hbitat del bosque. Los machos fueron ms numerosos en la primera parte de la migracin de la temporada de 1998 (73%) y las hembras en la ltima parte (72%), pero para el fin de la temporada de la migracin la proporcin sexual fue igual. Un modelo predijo que 9,848 salamandras cruzaron el camino para reproducirse en esta charca en 1998. Nuestro muestreo indic que solamente 12% de las salamandras postreproductivas sali de la charca, sugiriendo que la salida es menos dirigida que la llegada. Encontramos 61 salamandras muertas en la carretera en 1998, lo que indica una tasa de 0.62% de mortandad debido a vehculos.
3672688|The relict leopard frog (Rana onca) was once thought to be extinct, but has recently been shown to comprise a valid taxon with extant populations. We delineate the minimum historical range of the species based on records from 24 localities, report the extinction of 2 of 7 populations extant in the 1990s, and estimate total population size. The 5 remaining populations occurred in 2 areas: near the Overton Arm of Lake Mead and in Black Canyon along the Colorado River below Lake Mead, Nevada. These 2 areas are only 3.6 and 5.1 km long, respectively. The 5 extant populations inhabited spring systems with largely unaltered hydrology and no introduced American bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) or game fishes. In a mark-recapture study conducted in the Overton Arm area, the estimated number of adult frogs averaged 36 over 555 m of stream habitat, and estimated annual survivorship of adults averaged 0.27. A single mark-recapture estimate for the size of the largest population within Black Canyon, at a site approximately 450 m in length, was 637 adult frogs. An estimate for the total number of frogs at all sites, based on mark-recapture data, visual encounter surveys, and extent of habitat, was approximately 1,100 adults (range 693-1,833). The 2 recent population extinctions occurred concomitantly with encroachment of emergent vegetation into pools. We speculate that this occurred as a result of natural processes in one case, and anthropogenic processes in the other. /// La especie Rana onca previamente fue considerada extinta, pero recientemente se ha demostrado que es un taxn vlido con poblaciones actuales. Delimitamos el rango mnimo histrico de distribucin de la especie basado en registros en 24 localidades, registramos la extincin de dos de las siete poblaciones presentes durante los aos de 1990 y estimamos el tamao total de la poblacin. Las cinco poblaciones restantes se encontraron en dos reas: en la vecindad del brazo de Overton del Lago Mead y en el Can Negro a lo largo del ro Colorado ro abajo del Lago Mead, Nevada. Estas dos reas son de longitud de slo 3.6 y 5.1 km, respectivamente. Las cinco poblaciones actuales habitaron un sistema de manantiales sin perturbaciones y sin la rana extica rana toro (Rana catesbeiana) u otros peces exticos. En un estudio de marca-recaptura conducido en el rea del brazo de Overton, el nmero estimado de ranas adultas promedi de 36 en una distancia de 555 m de hbitat ripario y la supervivencia anual estimada de adultos promedi de 0.27. Una sola sesin de marca-recaptura estim que el tamao de la poblacin ms grande del Can Negro, en un sitio de aproximadamente 450 m de longitud, fue de 637 ranas adultas. Un clculo para el nmero total de ranas en todos los sitios, basado en registros de marca-recaptura, muestreos visuales y extensin del hbitat, fue de aproximadamente 1,100 adultas (con un rango de 693-1,833). La extincin de dos poblaciones coincidi con la invasin de vegetacin emergente en charcos. Especulamos que esto ocurri como resultado de procesos naturales en un caso y procesos antropognicos en otro.
3672689|The late Pleistocene ground sloth Paramylodon harlani was widely distributed across North America, but it is represented in Arizona by only 2 records. These include a nearly complete skeleton from the Richville Gravels near Springerville, Apache County, and a second partial skeleton from Shonto, Navajo County. Both specimens are from reportedly lacustrine deposits and suggest that the species was not adapted to xeric conditions. Thus, its distribution in the Southwest and potential for dispersal might have been determined by the presence of permanent water sources. /// El perezoso terrestre Paramylodon harlani del Pleistoceno tardo tena una distribucin amplia en Amrica del Norte, pero su presencia en Arizona est documentada con slo dos registros. Estos incluyen un esqueleto casi completo de los Richville Gravels cerca de Springerville, condado de Apache, y un esqueleto parcial de Shonto, condado de Navajo. Ambos especimenes, segn se dice son de depsitos lacustres e indican que la especie no estaba adaptada a condiciones secas. Entonces, su distribucin en el sudoeste de USA y su potencial para diseminar poda haber sido determinado por la presencia de fuentes permanentes de agua.
3672690|A fire history for the Aiken Canyon Nature Conservancy preserve in Colorado is presented. Eighteen cross-sections cut from ponderosa pine recorded 20 fire events for the period spanning 1602 to 1999. An unusually small median fire interval (MFI) of 7.5 years was obtained for the period 1753 to 1935. A significant association was found between El Nino weather patterns and the fires at Aiken Canyon. A shorter MFI was observed in the grasslands, which are at lower elevations. Fires from railroads or cattle ranching might have caused the shorter MFI in the grasslands between 1872 and 1935. After 1935, fire suppression became common. /// Se presenta la historia de fuegos en la reserva de la Aiken Canyon Nature Conservancy en Colorado. Dieciocho secciones cortadas de Pinus ponderosa registraron 20 acontecimientos de fuego en el perodo de 1602 a 1999. Un medio excepcionalmente pequeo del intervalo de fuego (MIF) de 7.5 aos se obtuvo por el perodo de 1753 a 1935. Se encontr una associacin significativa entre patrones de tiempo de El Nio y fuegos en el Aiken Canyon. Un MIF ms corto se observ en los prados que estn en elevaciones ms bajas. Fuegos de los ferrocarriles o de ranchos de ganado pudieron haber causado el MIF corto en los prados entre 1872 y 1935. Despus de 1935, la supresin del fuego lleg a ser comn.
3672691|We assessed the ability to age post oak (Quercus stellata) and blackjack oak (Q. marilandica) reproduction less than 100 cm in height using counts of terminal bud scars. We harvested reproduction from an old-growth Cross Timbers forest in north-central Oklahoma and compared age estimates from bud scar counts with actual age determined from annual ring counts. Approximately 71% of reproduction was accurately aged by counting bud scars. The majority of errors in age estimation were underestimates. We could accurately estimate age to within 2 years of the actual age 96% of the time. Error rates were similar between species and across height classes, but increased with age of reproduction. Damage to the stem from deer browsing or disease also increased age estimation error. This method might be especially applicable to oak forests that have low levels of herbivory and where nondestructive sampling techniques are required. /// Evaluamos la capacidad para determinar la edad de la reproduccin de menos de 100 cm de altura de los encinos Quercus stellata y Q. marilandica usando cuentas de las cicatrices de botones terminales. Cosechamos la reproduccin de un bosque viejo de "Cross Timbers" en el centro-norte de Oklahoma, y comparamos las estimaciones de la edad provenientes de las cuentas de cicatrices de botones con la edad verdica proveniente de cuentas de los cercos anuales. La edad de aproximadamente el 71% de la reproduccin fue determinada precisamente contando las cicatrices de botones. La mayora de los errores de la estimacin de edad fueron estimaciones bajas. Pudimos estimar precisamente la edad entre 2 aos de la edad verdica 96% de las veces. Las tasas de errores fueron similares entre especies y entre clases de altura, pero aumentaron con la edad de la reproduccin. Dao al tallo causado por el ramoneo de venados o por enfermedad tambin aument el error de estimacin de la edad. Este mtodo puede ser especialmente aplicable a los bosques de encinos que tengan niveles bajos de herbvoros y donde se requieren las tcnicas de muestreo no destructivo.
3672692|To examine how fire affects the invasive Argentine ant, Linepithema humile, I used pitfall traps to estimate worker abundance immediately prior to and for approximately 3 months after a controlled burn in a northern California grassland. I found that L. humile abundance per trap was, on average, 75% lower after the fire than before the fire. /// Para examinar cmo el fuego afecta a la hormiga invasora, Linepithema humile, utilic trampas de hoyos para estimar la abundancia de las obreras inmediatamente antes y durante aproximadamente tres meses despus de una quema controlada en un prado del norte de California. Encontr que la abundancia de L. humile por trampa era, en promedio, el 75% ms baja despus del fuego que antes del fuego.
3672693|Examination of museum records and field observations have included 4 new records for species of crayfish in Oklahoma (Cambarellus puer, Orconectes deanae, O. lancifer, and O. macrus) and a new drainage record for O. neglectus neglectus. These records bring the number of crayfish known in Oklahoma to 28 and emphasize the importance of revisiting aquatic habitats in regions that have been visited previously. Such records can help in determining the conservation status of poorly known taxonomic groups. /// La revisin de registros de museos y observaciones de campo mostr 4 registros nuevos de especies del cangrejo de ro en Oklahoma (Cambarellus puer, Orconectes deanae, O. lancifer y O. macrus) y un nuevo registro de cuenca para O. neglectus neglectus. Estos registros suben el nmero total de cangrejos de ro conocidos en Oklahoma a 28 y destacan la importancia de visitar nuevamente hbitats acuticos en regiones que se han visitado previamente. Tales registros pueden ayudar en la determinacin del estado de conservacin de grupos taxonmicos poco conocidos.
3672694|Twice monthly collections of young-of-the-year Procambarus clarkii were taken during the months of October 1998 through mid April 1999 from a roadside swamp near Colfax, Louisiana. Antennal glands of 465 P. clarkii were removed and examined for presence of the trematode parasite Allocorrigia filiformis. Data on seasonal prevalence of infection suggests that newly recruited members of the P. clarkii population acquired infections during a 5-month period from October through March. /// Se realizaron dos colecciones de juveniles del ao de Procambarus clarkii cada mes desde octubre de 1998 hasta mediados de abril de 1999 en un pantano al lado de un camino cerca de Colfax, Louisiana. Se quitaron las glndulas antenales de 465 P. clarkii y se las examinaron para detectar la presencia del parsito tremtodo Allocorrigia filiformis. Los datos sobre la prevalencia estacional de la infeccin sugieren que los nuevos reclutas de la poblacin de P. clarkii adquirieron la infeccin durante un perodo de 5 meses desde principios de octubre hasta fines de marzo.
3672695|Although amphibians are the dominant vertebrate inhabiting playa wetlands during spring and summer in the Southern Great Plains, little is known about their diet and role in playa trophic structure. Because new metamorphs are more numerous than other terrestrial life stages of amphibians, we describe the diets of recently (<2 weeks) metamorphosed Great Plains toad (Bufo cognatus), barred tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum), and New Mexico spadefoot (Spea multiplicata). Cultivation has greatly altered most playa watersheds (>95%); therefore, we also examined this influence on diets of Great Plains toad metamorphs. Diets of all 3 species were dominated by coleopteran taxa, and diversity of prey taxa did not vary among species. Amount of specific prey consumed varied among species, with Great Plains toads preying more on scarab beetles and formicid ants than New Mexico spadefoots and tiger salamanders. New Mexico spadefoot metamorphs consumed more chrysomelid and elaterid beetles than tiger salamanders or Great Plains toads. Given the high numerical abundance of metamorphs, they likely have a strong influence on secondary production in playas. Great Plains toad metamorphs in playas with grassland watersheds had a much more diverse diet than those using playas with cultivated watersheds. Conservation of amphibians in the Southern Great Plains should focus on preserving playas with native grassland watersheds or restoring those with cultivated watersheds. /// Los anfibios son los vertebrados ms abundantes durante la primavera y el verano en los lagos playa de las Grandes Planicies Sureas. Sin embargo, poca informacin existe sobre su dieta y posicin en la estructura trfica. Porque los recin metamorfoseados son ms abundantes que los otros estadios terrestres de anfibios, describimos las dietas de animales recientemente metamorfoseados (<2 semanas) de las especies del sapo de las Grandes Planicies (Bufo cognatus), la salamandra tigre (Ambystoma tigrinum), y el sapo montcula de espuela (Spea multiplicata). El cultivo de la tierra ha alterado de gran manera el hbitat de la mayora de los lagos playa (>95%), por lo que tambin examinamos el efecto de este factor sobre las dietas de metamorfoseados de B. cognatus. La presa principal de las tres especies fue coleptera y no hubo diferencias entre especies en la diversidad de presas. La cantidad de presas especficas consumidas s vari. Bufo cognatus consumi ms escarabajos escrabos y hormigas formcidas que S. multiplicata y A. tigrinum. Los recin metamorfoseados de S. multiplicata consumieron ms escarabajos crisomlidos y elatridos que A. tigrinum o B. cognatus. Debido a la gran cantidad de metamorfoseados, hay una alta posibilidad que ellos tengan una influencia fuerte sobre la produccin secundaria en los lagos playa. Metamorfoseados de B. cognatus que residen en lagos playa con cuenca pastizal tuvieron una dieta ms diversa que los en lagos playa con cuenca de cultivos. Esfuerzos para la conservacin de anfibios en las Grandes Planicies Sureas deben enfocarse en la preservacin de lagos playa con cuencas de pastizales nativas o en la restauracin de los que han sido alterados.
3672696|The genus Syrrhophus is recorded for the first time from Louisiana due to the discovery of a population of Syrrhophus cystignathoides in Shreveport. The frogs have been documented during 4 years. Calling males and a female with large yolked eggs indicated that this species was reproducing and surviving. /// El gnero Syrrhophus es registrado por primera vez en Louisiana debido al descubrimiento de una poblacin de Syrrhophus cystignathoides en Shreveport. Las ranas han sido documentadas durante 4 aos. El encuentro de machos cantando y una hembra con huevos grandes con yema indica que la especie estuvo reproducindose y sobreviviendo.
3672697|Many Phrynosoma species exhibit blood-squirting behavior, shooting a stream of blood from the ocular area, but not all species are known to exhibit this behavior. I tested blood-squirting responses to Canis familiaris in P. ditmarsi and P. solare, and recorded incidences of this behavior in other Phrynosoma species (P. asio, P. braconnieri, P. cornutum, P. orbiculare, and P. taurus). Phrynosoma ditmarsi squirted blood in 2 of 3 trials with the dog, but no P. ditmarsi showed any sign of blood squirting while handled in the field (n = 17). No P. solare squirted blood while handled (n = 7), but 1 specimen did squirt blood during a predator trial. Phrynosoma asio and P. cornutum both squirted blood more frequently when handled and other species did not squirt blood. This study corroborates previous observations that the behavior is context specific and can be elicited by tactile stimulation. This is the first published account of the blood squirting behavior in P. ditmarsi. /// Varias especies de Phrynosoma exhiben el hbito de arrojar un chorrito de sangre por el lagrimal del ojo, pero no sabemos si todas las especies exhiben esta conducta. Prob el hbito de arrojar sangre frente a Canis familiaris en P. ditmarsi y P. solare, y registr las incidencias del hbito en otras especies de Phrynosoma (P. asio, P. braconnieri, P. cornutum, P. orbiculare, y P. taurus). Phrynosoma ditmarsi arroj un chorro de sangre en 2 de 3 pruebas con el perro, pero P. ditmarsi no mostr ninguna indicacin de arrojar un chorro mientras que fue manipulado en el campo (n = 17). Phrynosoma solare tampoco arroj un chorrito de sangre mientras que fue manipulado (n = 7), pero 1 individuo arroj un chorro de sangre durante un encuentro con el depredador. Phrynosoma asio y P. cornutum arrojaron chorritos de sangre ms frecuentemente cuando fueron manipulados mientras que otras especies no arrojaron ningn chorrito. Esta conducta corrobora las observaciones anteriores de que la conducta depende del contexto y puede ser encadenada por el estmulo tctil. Este es el primer registro publicado del hbito de arrojar sangre en P. ditmarsi.
3672698|During June and July 2000, we collected regurgitated pellets and uneaten prey remains at 26 nests occupied by ferruginous hawks (Buteo regalis) in northwestern, western, and central New Mexico. Analysis of remains from all nests yielded a minimum of 260 individual prey from at least 18 vertebrate (13 mammals, 3 birds, and 2 reptiles) and 2 arthropod species. The taxa most frequently represented were Botta's pocket gopher (Thomomys bottae), ground squirrels (Spermophilus), Gunnison's prairie dog (Cynomys gunnisoni), and desert cottontail (Sylvilagus audubonii). Western diamondback rattlesnake (Crotalus atrox) and barn owl (Tyto alba) were recorded for the first time as prey of ferruginous hawks. /// Entre junio y julio del 2000 colectamos egagrpilas y otros restos alimenticios en 26 nidos ocupados del aguililla real (Buteo regalis) en las regiones del noroeste, oeste y centro del estado de Nuevo Mxico. El anlisis de los restos de todos los nidos produjo un mnimo de 260 presas individuales de al menos 18 especies de vertebrados (13 mamferos, 3 aves, y 2 reptiles) y de 2 especies de artrpodos. Los taxa ms abundantes fueron la tuza de Botta (Thomomys bottae), ardillas de la tierra (Spermophilus), el perrito de pradera de Gunnison (Cynomys gunnisoni), y el conejo del desierto (Sylvilagus audubonii). Se encontraron dos presas nunca antes reportadas en la dieta del aguililla real: la lechuza de campanario (Tyto alba) y la vbora de cascabel (Crotalus atrox).
3672699|Information on cowbird parasitism in Mexico is rare. We report the successful fledging of a brown-headed cowbird (Molothrus ater) nestling by black-capped gnatcatchers (Polioptila nigriceps) in the tropical deciduous forest of the Chamela-Cuixmala Biosphere Reserve, western Mexico, in June 2001. We observed 2 additional gnatcatcher pairs feeding a single brown-headed cowbird fledging. Opportunistic observations of nests of other species and few captures of brown-headed cowbirds during 18 months of intensive mist-netting suggested that cowbird abundance and parasitism was low in the reserve. /// Informacin sobre parasitismo por Molothrus ater en Mxico es escasa. Registramos la crianza exitosa de un pollo de M. ater por Poliotila nigriceps en el bosque tropical caducifolio de la Reserva de la Biosfera de Chamela-Cuixmala, en el oeste de Mxico, en junio 2001. Tambin observamos a otras dos parejas de esta especie alimentar a un solo volantn de M. ater. Observacin oportunista de nidos de otras especies, as como pocas capturas de M. ater durante un muestreo intensivo de 18 meses con redes de malla, sugiere que la abundancia de M. ater y la incidencia de su parasitismo en la reserva son bajas.
3672700|We designed a mobile anesthesia unit for surgically implanting radio transmitters in birds in the field. This minimizes the amount of time individuals undergoing the procedure are kept from their normal activities. Two units were designed and tested. In 2000, we successfully implanted radio transmitters in 40 white-winged doves in Kingsville, Texas, using a surgical unit carried in the bed of a truck. In 2002, we successfully implanted 39 white-winged doves in Waco, Texas, using a surgical unit carried in the cargo area of a minivan. The success of both trials indicates this method has great potential for use for numerous avian species while minimizing impacts to individuals being studies. /// Diseamos una unidad mvil de anestesia para implantar radio transmisores quirrgicamente en pjaros en el campo. Esto reduce al mnimo el tiempo que los individuos procesados pierden de sus actividades normales. Dos unidades fueron diseadas y probadas. En el 2000, 40 palomas ala blanca fueron exitosamente implantadas con radio transmisores en Kingsville, Texas, usando una unidad quirrgica montada en la parte trasera de una camioneta. En el 2002, implantamos exitosamente 39 palomas ala blanca en Waco, Texas, usando una unidad quirrgica montada en la parte trasera de una minivan. El xito de las dos pruebas indica que este mtodo tiene un gran potencial para numerosos usos en otras especies de pjaros, reduciendo al mnimo los impactos a los individuos que estn bajo estudio.
3672701|The white-ankled mouse (Peromyscus pectoralis) was previously known only from Carlsbad Caverns National Park and nearby areas in extreme southeastern New Mexico. I discovered 15 new localities for P. pectoralis, which extend its distribution 225 km north-northwest. This new distribution does not represent a recent northward expansion of P. pectoralis in New Mexico but reflects the lack of mammalian surveys in the region and misidentification of museum specimens from past surveys. At present, the distribution of P. pectoralis in New Mexico includes the Guadalupe Mountains and lowland habitats between the Sacramento Mountains and Pecos River. /// Previamente, el ratn de tobillo blanco (Peromyscus pectoralis) slo se conoca en el Parque Nacional de las Cavernas de Carlsbad y localidades adyacentes en el extremo sureste de Nuevo Mxico. Descubr 15 localidades nuevas para P. pectoralis que extienden su distribucin 225 km hacia el nor-noreste. Esta nueva distribucin no representa una expansin reciente de P. pectoralis en Nuevo Mxico sino que refleja la falta de muestreos de mamferos en la regin y la mala identificacin de especimenes en museos de muestreos anteriores. Hoy en da, la distribucin de P. pectoralis en Nuevo Mxico incluye las Guadalupe Mountains y los hbitats de tierras bajas entre las Sacramento Mountains y el Pecos River.
3672702|In southeastern Arizona, brush mice (Peromyscus boylii) are the primary carriers of Sin Nombre virus, the etiologic agent for the disease hantavirus pulmonary syndrome in humans. Due to the lack of available literature on brush mouse movements, we were interested in determining the probability of mice entering human habitations. We examined movements and home range size of radiocollared brush mice on the Santa Rita Experimental Range, 48 km south of Tucson, Arizona (3150N, 11050W). We compared movements among seasons (i.e., spring, January to April; summer, May to August; winter, September to December), and between sex and animals living near (200 m) versus far from human structures (e.g., cabins, sheds). We did not detect any significant differences in movements or home range size among seasons, or between sex or proximity to artificial structures. Brush mice, on average, moved 17.7 m between consecutive locations (3 hr apart). Annually, the average size of home range areas was 0.12 ha. On average, brush mice made small-scale movements within their home range. We found little evidence that brush mice sought human dwellings. /// En el sureste de Arizona, los ratones de arbustos (Peromyscus boylii) son los vectores principales del virus Sin Nombre, el agente etiolgico del sndrome pulmonar de virus hanta en humanos. Dada la falta de estudios publicados sobre los patrones de movimiento del ratn de arbustos, nos interesamos en determinar la probabilidad de que el ratn entre en viviendas humanas. Examinamos los patrones de movimiento y el tamao del rango de hogar del ratn de arbustos con radio transmisores de cuello en el Santa Rita Experimental Range, 48 km al sur de Tucson, Arizona (3150N, 11050O). Comparamos los patrones de movimiento entre estaciones (i.e., primavera, enero a abril; verano, mayo a agosto; invierno, septiembre a diciembre), y entre sexos y animales que viven cerca (200 m) o lejos de estructuras humanas (por ejemplo, cabaas o cobertizos). No encontramos diferencias significativas en los patrones de movimiento o en el tamao de los rangos de hogar entre estaciones, sexo, o proximidad a estructuras artificiales. En promedio, el ratn de arbustos se traslad 17.7 m entre ubicaciones sucesivas (3 hr de separacin). Anualmente, el tamao promedio de su rango de hogar es de 0.12 ha. En promedio, el ratn de arbustos se traslad en movimientos a pequea escala dentro de su rango de hogar. Encontramos poca evidencia de que el ratn busc viviendas humanas.
3672703|Myotis austroriparius and Corynorhinus rafinesquii are rare bats of the southeastern United States that reach the western limit of their range in eastern Texas. Although the presence of both bats in Texas has been known for over 30 years, there is little roosting information on either species. We located 15 roost sites of M. austroriparius in 9 Texas counties and 13 roosts of C. rafinesquii in 5 counties. Maternity roosts for M. austroriparius were located by tracking radiocollared adult females during the maternity season. These efforts resulted in 10 new county records (from 13 to 23 counties) for M. austroriparius and 5 new county records (from 10 to 15 counties) for Corynorhinus rafinefsquii in Texas. In addition to general roosting sites, 6 maternity roosts for M. austroriparius and 4 for C. rafinesquii were identified in 6 eastern Texas counties. /// Myotis austroriparius y Corynorhinus rafinesquii son murcilagos encontrados en el sudeste de los Estados Unidos que llegan al lmite oeste de su distribucin en el este de Texas. Aunque la presencia de ambas especies en Texas se ha conocido por ms de 30 aos, hay poca informacin de ellos en cuanto a su lugar de percha (dormidero). Encontramos 15 sitios de percha de M. austroriparius en 9 condados de Texas y 13 sitios de perchas de C. rafinesquii en 5 condados. Perchas de maternidad para M. austroriparius fueron localizadas durante la estacin de maternidad rastreando a hembras adultas que llevaban radio collares. Estos esfuerzos resultaron en 10 nuevos registros del condado (de 13 a 23 condados) para M. austroriparius y 5 nuevos registros de condado (de 10 a 15 condados) para C. rafinesquii en Texas. Adems de los dormideros generales, 6 perchas de maternidad de M. austroriparius y 4 de C. rafinesquii fueron identificadas en 6 condados en el este de Texas.
3672613|Most research on effects of edges to vertebrate wildlife comes from eastern-deciduous, boreal, and tropical forests where most edges are abrupt and have resulted from anthropogenic forest fragmentation. California oak (Quercus) woodland, by contrast, is naturally patchy and contains abundant edges, constituting a naturally fragmented vegetative complex. No published research has characterized the vegetative structure of these natural edges in California oak woodlands. To begin to fill this information gap, we measured 10 vegetative characteristics and the number of dusky-footed woodrat (Neotoma fuscipes) dwellings on 8 edges at 4 oak-grassland sites in San Luis Obispo County, California. Stem density and shrub cover were less at edges. Canopy cover and tree diameter were greater at edges, but other vegetative characteristics were similar between the edges of the woodland stands and their interiors. Woodrat dwellings were equally abundant between edges and interiors. Concepts of nest predation, nest parasitism, and other deleterious effects of induced edges previously identified in contiguous-canopy forests might not be applicable to California oak woodlands. Further research is needed to assess wildlife response to oak woodland edges and to further quantify vegetation characteristics of natural and induced oak woodland edges at stand and landscape scales. /// La mayora de la investigacin sobre los efectos de borde en la fauna vertebrada silvestre se han realizado en bosques tropicales, boreales y caducifolios donde la mayora de los bordes son abruptos y son el resultado de fragmentacin antropognica. En contraste, el bosque de robles (Quercus) en California es por naturaleza disparejo y tiene una abundancia de bordes, constituyendo un complejo vegetativo fragmentado de manera natural. No se ha publicado una investigacin que caracterice la estructura vegetativa de estos bordes naturales en los bosques de robles en California. Para empezar a llenar este vaco de informacin, medimos 10 caractersticas vegetativas y el nmero de nidos de ratas (Neotoma fuscipes) en 8 bordes en 4 lugares de praderas de robles en el condado de San Luis Obispo, California. La densidad del tallo y la cobertura de arbustos fue menor en los bordes. El dosel y el dimetro de los rboles fueron mayores en los bordes, pero otras caractersticas vegetativas fueron similares entre los bordes del rodal y el interior del mismo. Se encontr una abundancia similar de nidos de ratas en bordes e interiores. Los conceptos de depredacin de nidos, parasitismo de nidos y otros efectos perjudiciales de los bordes inducidos que han sido identificados previamente en doseles forestales contiguos pueden no ser aplicables a los bosques de robles de California. Ms investigacin es necesaria para estimar los efectos de los bordes de bosques de robles en la fauna y para cuantificar las caractersticas de la vegetacin de estos bordes, naturales e inducidos, a pequea y gran escalas.
3672614|Timing of gametogensis and thus spawning can be inferred through changes in plasma concentrations of gonadal hormones. In preparation for ovulation and spawning, mean concentrations of 17-estradiol in a population of Rio Grande chub (Gila pandora) occupying the Rio Bonito, New Mexico, peaked at 37.6 ng/mL on 16 June and declined to 1.50 ng/mL by 11 August. Similarly, the gonadal somatic index (GSI) increased from 9.02 on 21 May (n = 9) to 11.85 on 16 June (n = 2) and declined to 6.10 on 11 August (n = 2). Peak concentrations of 17-estradiol and elevated GSI in June coincided with peak daylength for the year (14 h and 12 min) and average water temperature of 15.1C. Concentrations of 17-estradiol remained low through 3 October indicating no additional spawning events in the Rio Grande chub population. We demonstrated 17-estradiol is a nondestructive and thus useful tool in estimating timing of spawning in a wild fish population. /// El periodo de gametognesis y desove se puede inferir a travs de cambios en las concentraciones de hormonas gondicas en la sangre. En preparacin para la ovulacin y desove, la concentracin promedio de 17-estradiol en una poblacin de Gila pandora del ro Bonito, Nuevo Mxico, alcanz su punto mximo de 37.6 ng/mL el 16 de junio y disminuy a 1.50 ng/mL el 11 de agosto. Del mismo modo, el ndice gonadal somtico (IGS) se increment de 9.02 el 21 de mayo (n = 9) a 11.85 el 16 de junio (n = 2) y disminuy a 6.10 el 11 de agosto (n = 2). El punto mximo de 17-estradiol y el elevado IGS en junio coincidieron con el mximo fotoperiodo del ao (14 h y 12 minutos) y una temperatura promedio del agua de 15.1C. Las concentraciones de 17-estradiol permanecieron bajas hasta el 3 de octubre indicando que no hubo eventos adicionales de desove en la poblacin de Gila pandora. Demostramos que el 17-estradiol es una herramienta util y no destructiva para estimar el periodo de desove en poblaciones silvestres de peces.
3672615|We present data on diet of 2 syntopic populations of frogs, Rana vaillanti and R. brownorum collected near the Los Tuxtlas biological field station, Veracruz, Mxico. Rana vaillanti strictly inhabits ponds, whereas R. brownorum occurs in several microhabitat types. The stomach contents of 26 specimens of R. vaillanti and 22 of R. brownorum were analyzed. Arthropods consumed by R. vaillanti and R. brownorum included 10 and 12 taxa, respectively. The main prey items for R. vaillanti were Diptera (42.3%), decapod crustaceans (16.3%), Mollusca (Stylomatophora, 8.1%), and Orthoptera (8.2%), whereas R. brownorum consumed Orthoptera (22.0%), Coleoptera (20.8%), and Hymenoptera (15.6%). A regression analysis between prey sizes and snout-vent length was significant in R. brownorum, but not in R. vaillanti. Diversity of prey items was higher in R. brownorum than in R. vaillanti. /// Presentamos datos sobre la dieta de 2 poblaciones sintpicas de las ranas Rana vaillanti y R. brownorum recolectadas cerca de la Estacin Biolgica de Los Tuxtlas, Veracruz, Mxico. Rana vaillanti habita estrictamente estanques, mientras que R. brownorum ocurre en varios tipos de microhbitats. Contenidos estomacales de 26 individuos de R. vaillanti y 22 de R. brownorum fueron analizados. El nmero de taxa de artrpodos consumidos por R. vaillanti y R. brownorum fueron 10 y 12, respectivamente. Las presas principales para R. vaillanti fueron Diptera (42.3%), crustceos decpodos (16.3%), Mollusca (Stylomatophora, 8.1%) y Orthoptera (8.2%), mientras que R. brownorum comi Orthoptera (22.0%), Coleoptera (20.8%) e Hymenoptera (15.6%). La regresin entre el tamao de la presa y la longitud hocico-cloaca de R. brownorum fue significativa pero no para R. vaillanti. La diversidad de presas fue mayor en R. brownorum que en R. vaillanti.
3672616|Studies of natural history are important for determining baseline information, particularly for species that might be threatened or endangered. We collected 254 (141M:94F:19UNK) massasauga, Sistrurus catenatus edwardsii, from May 1995 through October 1996. The average snoutvent length (SVL  SD) for adult males (355  45 mm) was not significantly different than the SVL of adult females (364  24 mm). Habitat descriptions indicate that the massasauga in Colorado is a semi-arid grassland species that utilizes areas of relatively open shortgrass prairie. Massasaugas were active between 14 and 30C, with an average ambient temperature during activity of 22.1  2.5C. The time of observed activity shifted through the season, with primarily diurnal activity during the cooler months (April and late September to October) and primarily early evening activity during the hotter months (May through August). Massasaugas in Colorado gave birth to litters of 5 to 7 young between late August and late September, and reproduction appeared to be biennial. Populations of S. c. edwardsii in Colorado are scattered but population size appeared to be relatively large based on number of captures and low recapture rates, particularly in Lincoln County. However, due to habitat loss and fragmentation resulting from agricultural expansion, these populations might become increasingly threatened in the future. /// Estudios de historia natural son importantes para determinar informacin bsica, particularmente para especies que pueden estar amenazadas o en peligro de extincin. Colectamos 254 (141 machos:94 hembras:19 desconocidos) de massasauga del desierto, Sistrurus catenatus edwardsii, entre mayo de 1995 y octubre de 1996. El promedio de longitud hocico-cloaca (LHC) para machos adultos (355  45 mm) no fue significativamente diferente al de las hembras (364  24 mm). Las descripciones del hbitat indican que la massasauga en Colorado es una especie de pastizales semiridos que habita reas de praderas de pasto corto relativamente abiertas. Massasaugas estuvieron activas entre 14 y 30C, con un promedio de temperatura ambiente durante la actividad de 22.1  2.5C. La poca de la actividad observada cambi con la estacin del ao, con actividad diurna durante los meses ms frescos (abril y finales de septiembre a octubre) y con actividad crepuscular durante los meses ms calientes (mayo a agosto). Massasaugas en Colorado dieron a luz a camadas de 5 a 7 cras entre fines de agosto y fines de septiembre, y la reproduccin pareci ser bianual. Las poblaciones de S. c. edwardsii en Colorado estn dispersas pero el tamao poblacional pareci ser relativamente grande basado en el nmero de capturas y las tasas bajas de recaptura, especialmente en el condado de Lincoln. Sin embargo, debido a la fragmentacin y la prdida de hbitat resultado de la expansin agrcola, estas poblaciones pueden ser amenazadas en el futuro.
3672617|A new species of Diploglossus is described from the Sierra de Los Tuxtlas in southern Veracruz, Mexico. Individuals of this species are among the largest in the genus in Mexico (up to 105 mm snout-vent length). Similar to D. enneagrammus and D. legnotus, this new species has the suboculars and postoculars arranged in a single continuous series, in contrast to suboculars and postoculars in juxtaposed series. The new species differs from D. enneagrammus in having more scales around the midbody and a red-orange throat and anterior flanks marked with broad dark bars; it differs from D. legnotus in possessing more scales around the midbody and more scales along the dorsal midline. /// Una especie nueva de Diploglossus se describe de la Sierra de Los Tuxtlas en el sur de Veracruz, Mxico. Esta especie es una de las ms grandes del gnero en Mxico (hasta 105 mm de longitud hocico-cloaca). Similar a D. enneagramus y D. legnotus, esta nueva especie tiene escamas suboculares y postoculares organizadas en una sola serie continua, en contraste a suboculares y postoculares en series yuxtapuestas. La nueva especie difiere de D. enneagramus en tener ms escamas alrededor de la parte media del cuerpo, y una garganta de color rojo-naranja, y los flancos anteriores marcados con barras anchas oscuras; difiere de D. legnotus en poseer ms escamas alrededor de la parte media del cuerpo y ms escamas a lo largo del dorso.
3672618|Lesser prairie-chickens (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) occur in shinnery oak (Quercus havardii) and sand sagebrush (Artemisia filifolia) grassland habitats in New Mexico, Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, and Colorado. Range-wide population reductions since the 1800s have been attributed to habitat loss, especially of nesting habitat. Using radio-telemetry and a vegetation map of the study area, we investigated habitat use by lesser prairie-chicken hens during the nesting season in herbicide-treated and untreated pastures (each about 1,000 ha in size). Herbicide treatment was effective in reducing shinnery oak cover. The most common vegetation types in hen home ranges were those dominated by shinnery oak. Hens were detected more often than randomly in or near untreated pastures. Although hens were detected in both treated and untreated habitats, 13 of 14 nests were located in untreated pastures, and all nests were located in areas dominated by shinnery oak. Areas immediately surrounding nests had higher shrub composition than the surrounding pastures. This study suggests that herbicide treatment to control shinnery oak might adversely impact nesting lesser prairie-chickens. /// La gallinita de praderas (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) se encuentra en hbitats como pastizales de encino blanco (Quercus havardii) y artemisia (Artemisia filifolia) en los estados de Nuevo Mxico, Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas y Colorado. Reducciones de poblaciones en todo su rango desde 1800 han sido atribuidas a la prdida de hbitat, especialmente hbitat para anidacin. Usando radio-telemetra y un mapa de vegetacin del rea de estudio, investigamos el uso de hbitat por hembras de la gallinita de praderas durante el periodo de anidacin en campos tratados con herbicidas y en campos no tratados (cada campo de cerca de 1000 ha). El tratamiento con herbicida fue exitoso en reducir la cubierta de Q. havardii. Los tipos de vegetacin ms comunes en las reas de hogar de las gallinitas fueron los dominados por Q. havardii. Se detectaron gallinitas ms frecuentemente que al azar en o cerca de campos no tratados. Aunque las hembras usaron tanto hbitats tratados con herbicida como no tratados, 13 de 14 nidos se hallaron en campos no tratados y todos los nidos fueron localizados en reas dominadas por Q. havardii. Areas cerca de nidos fueron cubiertas con ms arbustos que los parches circundantes. Este estudio sugiere que el tratamiento con herbicida para reducir Q. havardii puede empeorar el hbitat de anidacin de la gallinita de praderas.
3672619|Artificial roosts known as bat houses have been developed to replace natural roosts that are destroyed and to create new roosts where they are lacking. I investigated the effects of variables related to bat house characteristics and ecological conditions on patterns of roost occupancy in 95 bat houses. Bat houses seem to have been used exclusively as day roosts, with an overall occupancy rate of 11.6%. The presence of bats roosting in the immediate area prior to the placement of the house was an important predictor of occupancy. When bats were already present at a site, the occupancy rate increased to 63.6%. Likelihood of occupancy also was increased by providing houses with larger landing areas, by mounting them on buildings instead of trees, and by placing houses in areas with low canopy cover and low levels of human disturbance. Bat houses are probably best used when a roost is going to be destroyed, or a colony excluded, and when the houses can be placed in the immediate area of the old roost. /// Perchas artificiales (dormideros) conocidas como casas para murcilagos han sido desarrolladas para reemplazar perchas naturales que son destruidas y para colocar nuevas perchas en sitios que no las tienen. Investigu los patrones de ocupacin de 95 casas para murcilagos con respecto a sus caractersticas estructurales as como con respecto a variables ecolgicas. Las casas parecieron haber sido utilizadas exclusivamente durante el da, con 11.6% de las casas ocupadas. La presencia de murcilagos en perchas en sectores aledaos antes de colocar las casas fue el mejor pronosticador de la ocupacin de stas. La tasa de ocupacin aument a 63.6% cuando algunos murcilagos ya se hallaban en la zona. La probabilidad del uso de las casas aument cuando las casas tuvieron reas de aterrizaje ms grandes, fueron instaladas en edificios y no en rboles, y fueron puestas en reas con cubierta de dosel bajo y con bajo impacto antropognico. Parece mejor usar las casas para murcilagos cuando una percha va a ser destruida, o una colonia va a ser excluida, y cuando las casas pueden ser colocadas en reas inmediatas a perchas antiguas.
3672620|We tested the hypotheses that intrasexual aggression among female thirteen-lined ground squirrels (Spermophilus tridecemlineatus) varies with female density and that females defend home burrows and surrounding areas. Independent of density, females used and maintained 1 home burrow preferentially. The frequencies of aggressive encounters and displays initiated by females in high-density populations were 6 and 4 times higher, respectively, than that initiated by females living at low density. In high-density populations, the average overlap of female home ranges was only 13% of home range area, suggesting female defense of these areas (territoriality). Furthermore, most aggressive encounters were initiated when females were within their territory borders. Females displaced opponents in 80.6% of these encounters, whereas they prevailed in only 26.3% of aggressive encounters initiated outside of territory borders. In experiments involving the temporary removal of individual females, 1 or more neighboring females began using the territory of the removed female, and the frequency of both encounters and displays increased during removals. Upon their return, removed females reestablished their original territories by displacing the responding neighbors. Our results indicate that female S. tridecemlineatus defend territories surrounding a home burrow site, and that intrasexual aggression relegates some females to less preferred areas. /// Probamos la hiptesis de que la agresin intrasexual entre hembras de la ardilla de trece lneas (Spermophilus tridecemlineatus) vara con la abundancia de hembras, y de que las hembras defienden sus madrigueras y alrededores. Independientemente de la abundancia, las hembras usaron y mantuvieron preferentemente una madriguera. Las frecuencias de encuentros y exhibiciones agresivos iniciados por hembras en poblaciones de alta abundancia fueron 6 y 4 veces ms altas, respectivamente, que las de hembras viviendo en baja abundancia. En las poblaciones de alta abundancia, un promedio de solamente 13% del rea de los rangos de hogar de las hembras se sobrepuso en los de sus vecinas, sugiriendo la defensa de esas reas por hembras (la territorialidad). Adems, la mayora de los encuentros agresivos fueron iniciados cuando las hembras estaban en su territorio. Las hembras sacaron a sus oponentes en 80.6% de estos encuentros, pero ganaron en slo 26.3% de los encuentros que iniciaron fuera de sus territorios. En experimentos de extraccin temporaria de hembras, 1 o ms de las vecinas empez a usar el territorio de la hembra removida, y la frecuencia de ambos encuentros y exhibiciones aumentaron cuando removimos individuos. A su regreso, las hembras previamente extradas ocuparon nuevamente sus territorios originales, sacando a las vecinas que haban invadido. Nuestros resultados indican que las hembras de S. tridecemlineatus defienden territorios alrededor de su madriguera, y que la agresin intrasexual relega a algunas hembras a reas menos preferidas.
3672621|Climatic elements can influence reproduction of mammals. In temperate zones, reproduction often is related to favorable environmental factors, such as spring and rainy seasons, which correspond to availability of food. The goal of this study was to describe the reproductive cycle of the black-tailed jackrabbit, Lepus californicus, with regards to temperature, rainfall, evaporation, and photoperiod in the Mapim Biosphere Reserve in the central Chihuahuan Desert, Durango, Mexico. If the onset of breeding correlates with these environmental factors, we predicted that mating should be related to total rainfall. To test this prediction, we collected 39 females and 36 males between July 1996 and November 1997 and measured and recorded reproductive condition. Weights of ovaries in females were correlated with increases in photoperiod, evaporation, rainfall, and mean monthly temperature. Increases in male testicular weight were correlated with increasing photoperiod only. We concluded that differences in responses of males and females were related to differing reproductive strategies. Females experience higher reproductive costs and probably respond to a more complex set of environmental cues to increase their reproductive success. /// Los elementos del clima influyen en la reproduccin de los mamferos. En zonas templadas la reproduccin a menudo est vinculada a factores ambientales favorables, como las pocas primaverales y de lluvias, las cuales corresponden con la disponibilidad de alimento. El objectivo de este trabajo fue describir el ciclo reproductivo de la liebre de cola negra, Lepus californicus, en relacin con la temperatura, la precipitacin, la evaporacin y el fotoperiodo, en la Reserva de la Biosfera de Mapim, en el desierto Chihuahuense, en Durango, Mxico. Si el inicio de la poca reproductora se correlaciona con los factores ambientales, entonces predecimos que el apareamiento estar relacionado con la lluvia total. Para probar esta prediccin, entre julio de 1996 y noviembre de 1997 colectamos 39 hembras y 36 machos y medimos y registramos su condicin reproductora. En las hembras, los pesos de los ovarios se correlacionaron con el incremento del fotoperiodo, la evaporacin, la precipitacin y la temperatura media mensual. En el caso de los machos, los incrementos del peso testicular estuvieron correlacionados solamente con el incremento del fotoperiodo. Concluimos que las diferencias en las respuestas entre machos y hembras estuvieron relacionadas con las diferentes estrategias reproductivas. Para las hembras, el costo reproductivo es mayor, por lo que responden a una serie ms compleja de claves medioambientales para aumentar su xito reproductivo.
3672622|Seasonal scarcity of forbs in southern Texas often requires white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) to subsist on browse. Deer might seek minerals during periods of high browse consumption as buffers or as precursors to conjugate-based detoxification of plant secondary compounds (PSCs) contained in many browse species. To determine importance of plant secondary compounds on mineral consumption, we fed diets of 0, 25, 50, and 75% guajillo (Acacia berlandieri), a browse species high in PSCs, to 4 male white-tailed deer in a Latin square design experiment, and we compared mineral metabolism and determined how well guajillo met mineral requirements for maintenance and productive processes as described in the literature. Concentrations of calcium, phosphorus, and sodium in the diet decreased with increases in guajillo, whereas magnesium concentration did not change. Losses of calcium, phosphorus, and magnesium occurred largely via fecal excretion, whereas sodium losses occurred via urinary excretion. Calcium, magnesium, and sodium intake rates from diets up to 100% guajillo exceeded requirements. Adult males met summer and fall phosphorus requirements with diets of 100% guajillo and their spring and annual requirements were met with diets of <75 and 97% guajillo, respectively. Phosphorus supplementation during periods of low rainfall and high guajillo consumption might reduce the phosphorus deficit in reproducing females. /// La escasez temporal de vegetacin herbcea en el sur de Texas requiere que el venado cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus) frecuentemente subsista a base de una dieta arbustiva. Es probable que los venados busquen minerales durante periodos de alto consumo de arbustos para que estos sirvan como reguladores o precursores para formar conjugados en la desintoxificacin de compuestos secundarios contenidos en muchas de las especies arbustivas. Para determinar la importancia de los compuestos secundarios en el consumo de minerales, se utiliz un diseo experimental en cuadrado Latino. Se aliment a 4 venados machos con dietas que consistan de 0, 25, 50 y 75% de "guajillo" (Acacia berlandieri), el cual es un arbusto que contiene gran cantidad de compuestos secundarios. Se compar el metabolismo de minerales y se determin si el guajillo satisface las necesidades de minerales para los procesos productivos y de mantenimiento descritos en la literatura. La concentracin en la dieta de calcio, fsforo, y sodio disminuy con el incremento en el consumo de guajillo, mientras que la concentracin de magnesio no vari. Las prdidas de calcio, fsforo, y magnesio ocurrieron mayormente a travs de las heces fecales, mientras que las prdidas del sodio ocurrieron por la va urinaria. Las tasas de consumo de calcio, magnesio, y sodio en dietas que consistan de hasta 100% de guajillo excedieron lo requerido. Durante el verano y otoo, el macho adulto obtuvo el fsforo requerido con dietas que consistan en 100% de guajillo y obtuvo lo necesario durante la primavera y a travs del ao, con dietas de <75 y 97% de guajillo, respectivamente. El suplemento de fsforo durante periodos de baja precipitacin y alto consumo de guajillo puede reducir el dficit de fsforo en hembras en periodo reproductivo.
3672623|Plague is an introduced bacterial disease whose primary vectors are fleas (Siphonaptera). Utah prairie dogs (Cynomys parvidens) are highly susceptible to plague, and entire colonies usually disappear shortly after plague arrives. Infusion of burrows with Pyraperm (an insecticidedust) kills fleas and immediately halts the spread of plague within colonies. Thus, insecticide-dusts might play an important role in the conservation of prairie dogs. /// La plaga bubnica es una enfermedad bacterial introducida para quien las pulgas (Siphonaptera) son los vectores principales. Los perros de la pradera de Utah (Cynomys parvidens) son muy susceptibles a la plaga, y colonias enteras generalmente desaparecen poco despus de la llegada de la plaga. La inyeccin en las madrigueras con Pyraperm (un polvo insecticida) mata a las pulgas y detiene inmediatamente la propagacin de la plaga en las colonias. Entonces, es posible que los polvos de insecticidas puedan jugar un papel importante en la conservacin de los perros de la pradera.
3672624|Large animals occurring on Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL) and adjoining property pose a number of concerns to area residents and government agencies. Some of these concerns are animal-related accidents that can result in human injuries and fatalities, property damage, and a loss of an economically viable resource (game). We analyzed animal-vehicle accident data with respect to time, season, location, and species for accidents occurring on LANL property and analyzed site characteristics of accident hotspots. We observed a significantly greater number of vehicle-elk (Cervus elaphus) accidents during winter compared to summer and spring and a greater number of elk and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) vehicle accidents during late afternoon and evening hours compared to morning and afternoon hours. We estimated a cost of $136,500 per year associated with animal-vehicle accidents occurring on LANL property (excluding medical costs). Slope and vegetation height were the best predictors of the status of an area as a hotspot or a control site. These data will be used in public education efforts and to develop mitigation measures to reduce the potential for accidents. /// Animales grandes que se encuentran en la zona del Laboratorio Nacional de Los Alamos (LANL) y en propiedades adjuntas presentan muchas preocupaciones a los residentes del rea y a las agencias del gobierno. Algunas de estas preocupaciones se relacionan a accidentes con animales que puedan resultar en personas lastimadas o muertas, daos a propiedades y una prdida de un recurso econmicamente viable (caza). Analizamos datos sobre accidentes que ocurren en la propiedad de LANL entre animales y vehculos con respeto a la hora, la estacin, el sitio y la especie, y analizamos las caractersticas de los sitios donde ocurrieron ms accidentes. Observamos un nmero significativamente mayor de accidentes entre vehculos y alces (Cervus elaphus) durante el invierno comparado al verano y la primavera y un mayor nmero de accidentes entre vehculos y alces y venados bura (Odocoileus hemionus) durante el atardecer y el anochecer comparado con las horas de la maana y la tarde. Estimamos un costo de $136,500 dlares por ao asociado con accidentes entre automviles y animales que ocurren en la propiedad de LANL (excluyendo los costos mdicos). El ngulo de la cuesta y la altura de la vegetacin fueron los mejores pronosticadores del estado de un rea como sitio de control o una de muchos accidentes. Estos datos se utilizarn para la educacin del pblico y para desarrollar medidas de mitigacin para reducir el potencial para accidentes.
3672625|In an algal survey of Pipe Spring National Monument, Cedar Breaks National Monument, and Zion National Park in southern Utah and northern Arizona, 186 species were identified. Overall, diatoms were the dominant group represented by 103 species (55.4% of the reported species). Cyanobacteria and green algae included 41 species each (22.0%), and red algae had only 1 species. Only at Weeping Rock in Zion National Park were cyanobacteria and green filamentous algae dominant. /// En un estudio de algas en Pipe Spring National Monument, Cedar Breaks National Monument y Zion National Park en el sur de Utah y norte de Arizona, se identificaron 186 especies de algas. Sobre todo, los diatomas fueron el grupo dominante y estuvieron representados por 103 especies (55.4% de las especies registradas). Cianobacterias y algas verdes incluyeron 41 especies cada una (22.0%) y las algas rojas slo una especie. Slo en Weeping Rock en Zion National Park cianobacterias y algas verdes filamentosas fueron dominantes.
3672626|A Eurasian scentless plant bug, Rhopalus tigrinus, first recorded in North America from New Jersey in 1977, has since been reported from 4 additional eastern states and 6 western states. On the basis of fieldwork and examination of museum collections, I report this cruciferfeeding insect new to New Mexico, Texas, and Utah. Despite its wide Nearctic distribution and occasional use of native Brassicaceae as hosts, the ecological, historical, and taxonomic evidence suggests that R. tigrinus is a nonindigenous species that has been introduced accidentally into the United States. /// El bicho inodoro euroasitico de plantas, Rhopalus tigrinus, registrado por la primera vez en Norteamrica en New Jersey en 1977, despus ha sido registrado en otros 4 estados orientales y 6 estados occidentales. Basndose en trabajo de campo y examen de colecciones de museo, se registra por primera vez la presencia de este insecto, que se alimenta de cruciferae, en Nuevo Mxico, Texas, y Utah. A pesar de su amplia distribucin nertica y del uso ocasional de Brassicaceae nativo como husped, la evidencia ecolgica, histrica y taxonmica sugiere que R. tigrinus es una especie no nativa que ha sido introducida accidentalmente en los Estados Unidos.
3672627|The reproductive cycles of Leptodeira maculata and L. punctata were examined from museum specimens collected in Mexico. Males followed a testicular cycle in which sperm were produced in spring, summer, and autumn. Egg production in L. maculata occured in spring and summer. The mean of 6 egg clutches was 8.7  1.5 SD, range = 7 to 11. The egg clutches of 10 and 11 are the maximum known from L. maculata. Leptodeira punctata produced eggs in spring, summer, and autumn. Mean clutch size of 9 egg clutches was 7.8  1.7 SD, range = 6 to 11. Apparently, only part of each female population produced eggs each year. The smallest reproductively active male L. maculata was 280 mm snout-vent length (SVL); the smallest reproductively active female was 480 mm SVL. The smallest reproductively active male L. punctata was 276 mm SVL; the smallest reproductively active female was 360 mm SVL. /// Los ciclos reproductivos de Leptodeira maculata y L. punctata fueron examinados en ejemplares de museos recolectados en Mxico. Los machos siguieron un ciclo testicular en el cual la esperma se produce en la primavera, el verano y el otoo. La produccin de huevos de L. maculata ocurri en la primavera y en el verano. El promedio de 6 puestas de huevos fue de 8.7  1.5 DE, rango = 7 a 11. Las puestas de huevos de 10 y 11 son el mximo nmero documentado para L. maculata. Leptodeira punctata produjo huevos en la primavera, el verano y el otoo. El tamao promedio de 9 puestas de huevos fue de 7.8  1.7 DE, rango = 6 a 11. Parece que slo una parte de cada poblacin de hembras produjo huevos cada ao. El macho de L. maculata ms pequeo reproductivamente activo midi 280 mm de longitud hocico-cloaca (LHC); la hembra ms pequea reproductivamente activa midi 480 mm LHC. El macho de L. punctata ms pequeo reproductivamente activo midi 276 mm LHC; la hembra ms pequea reproductivamente activa midi 360 mm LHC.
3672628|On 26 August 2000, a Grand Canyon rattlesnake (Crotalus viridis abyssus) was observed and photographed while it swallowed a juvenile spotted sandpiper (Actitis macularia) on a Colorado River beach at Unkar Ruins, Grand Canyon National Park, Coconino County, Arizona. Birds have occasionally been documented as prey of Crotalus viridis, but this is the first report for C. v. abyssus and the first record of a rattlesnake preying on a shorebird (Charadriiformes). /// El 26 de agosto del 2000, una vbora de cascabel del Grand Canyon (Crotalus viridis abyssus) fue observada y fotografiada mientras tragaba un juvenil playero alzacolita (Actitis macularia) en una playa del ro Colorado en las ruinas de Unkar en el Parque Nacional del Grand Canyon, en el condado de Coconino, Arizona. Se ha documentado que a veces pjaros han sido presas de Crotalus viridis, pero ste es el primer registro por C. v. abyssus y el primer registro de una vbora de cascabel capturando un pjaro playero (Charadriiformes).
3672629|Avian mortality at communication towers in the Rio Grande Valley of southern New Mexico was studied during the fall of 2001 to quantify mortality at radio towers and to identify avian species following this migratory corridor. Six radio towers of heights ranging from 265 to 805 m and distances of 150 to 18,000 m from the Rio Grande were selected. Each tower was visited twice per week for a total of 24 visits per tower. Only 6 mortalities were found: 1 migrant raptor and 5 migrant passerines. Other parts of the western United States that experience adverse weather, such as low, overcast conditions, might be more vulnerable to large numbers of avian mortalities at communication towers than we found in southern New Mexico. /// Se estudio la mortandad de aves en las torres de comunicacin en el valle del ro Grande del sur de Nuevo Mxico durante el otoo del 2001 para cuantificar la mortandad en las torres de radio y para identificar las aves en este corredor migratorio. Se seleccionaron 6 torres con un rango de altura de 265 a 805 m y a distancias de 150 a 18,000 m del ro Grande. Cada torre fue visitada 2 veces a la semana por un total de 24 visitas por cada torre. Se encontraron slo 6 aves muertas: 1 especie de ave de rapia migratoria y 5 de aves cantoras migratorias. Otras regiones del oeste de Estados Unidos que experimentan climas extremos, como niebla baja y densa, pueden ser ms vulnerables a grandes cantidades de muertes de aves en torres de comunicacin que lo que encontramos en el sur de Nuevo Mxico.
3672398|Palmer's agave (Agave palmeri), prominent in semi-desert grasslands of Arizona, New Mexico, and northwestern Mexico, shares its range with migratory nectar-feeding bat species and has bat-adapted floral traits. However, previous observations suggest that bats, such as Leptonycteris curasoae, often miss much of the lengthy flowering period of A. palmeri. To test the hypothesis that peak flowering coincides with peak availability of bats, I monitored flowering in 2 areas from mid June to mid September 1997, observed plants with night-vision binoculars for signs of pollinator activity, and measured floral rewards during part of this period. In the Peloncillos Mountains, New Mexico, no bat visits were seen during the first 60% of the flowering period (15 June to 12 August), and large dawn standing crops of nectar and pollen indicated little nocturnal consumption. From 24 August to 12 September, as the number of flowers decreased, bats were common visitors. These included L. curasoae and Choeronycteris mexicana. In the Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona, results were similar except that bats were also seen once in July. These observations suggest that most bats arrived late in the flowering period. However, detecting bats during peak flowering is problematic, because their energy needs are low relative to agave rewards, and a small population could be easily satiated. /// El agave Palmer (Agave palmeri), una planta prominente en las planicies semidesrticas de Arizona, Nuevo Mxico y del noroeste de Mxico, comparte su distribucin geogrfica con especies migratorias de murcilagos nectarvoros y presenta caractersticas florales que indican la polinizacin por murcilagos. Sin embargo, observaciones previas sugieren que los murcilagos, especialmente Leptonycteris curasoae, pierden una parte importante del largo perodo de floracin de A. palmeri. Para confirmar la hiptesis de que el pico de floracin coincide con el aumento en el nmero de murcilagos, desde junio a septiembre observ la floracin de estas plantas en dos reas. Observ las plantas por medio de binoculares de visin nocturna para evaluar la actividad de los polinizadores y med las recompensas florales durante parte de este perodo. En la sierra Peloncillos, en Nuevo Mxico, no se presenciaron visitas de murcilagos durante el primer 60% del perodo de floracin (15 de junio a 12 de agosto) y gran cantidad disponible de nctar y polen al amanecer indicaba un escaso consumo nocturno. Del 24 de agosto al 12 de septiembre, mientras la cantidad de flores disminua, los murcilagos fueron ms comunes. Dos especies de murcilagos fueron capturados, L. curasoae y Choeronycteris mexicana. En la sierra Chiricahua, Arizona, los resultados fueron similares excepto que algunos murcilagos fueron tambin observados una vez en julio. Estas observaciones sugieren que los murcilagos llegan en la ltima etapa del perodo de floracin. Sin embargo, la deteccin de murcilagos durante la poca de floracin es problemtica, ya que la energa que necesitan es relativamente baja en relacin con las recompensas de nctar que ofrecen los agaves, por lo que la poblacin puede ser fcilmente satisfecha.
3672399|The Devils River minnow (Dionda diaboli) has a limited distribution in Texas and Mexico. It is listed as threatened in the United States and endangered in Mexico. Recent collections in previously inaccessible locations in the headwaters of Pinto Creek, Kinney County, Texas, revealed a large population of D. diaboli. This species was found in habitats of flowing, spring-fed waters over gravel-cobble substrates, usually associated with aquatic macrophytes, but was confined to the upper segment of the creek. The confined distribution of Devils River minnow can offer valuable insight into its habitat and conservation. The future of this population might be threatened by reduced spring flows resulting from excessive pumping from the associated aquifer. /// La sardinita diabla, Dionda diaboli, tiene una distribucin limitada en Texas y Mxico. Se encuentra como una especie amenazada en los Estados Unidos y en peligro de extincin en Mxico. Las colecciones recientes en lugares previamente inaccesibles en la cabecera del Pinto Creek, condado de Kinney, Texas, revelaron una poblacin grande de D. diaboli. Esta especie fue encontrada en hbitats de corrientes de aguas manantiales, sobre substratos de grava, asociada generalmente con macrfitos acuticos, pero fue confinada al segmento superior del arroyo. La distribucin confinada de D. diaboli puede ofrecer una comprensin valiosa del hbitat y necesidades de la conservacin de esta especie. El futuro de esta poblacin puede ser amenazado por el flujo primaveral reducido resultado del bombeo excesivo del acufero asociado.
3672400|Monitoring wildlife populations is a challenging task for scientists and resource managers. We assessed 4 methods for monitoring population size of barking frogs (Eleutherodactylus augusti) in southern Arizona: mark-recapture, distance sampling, call counts, and visual encounter surveys. Because of the ecology and behavior of this species, all methods produced data that contained too much variability and bias to be useful for monitoring population size. For cryptic species such as barking frogs, monitoring programs might be more effective if they focus on parameters other than population size. /// El monitoreo de poblaciones silvestres constituye un reto para los cientficos y para los responsables del manejo de los recursos naturales. Evaluamos cuatro mtodos para monitorear el tamao poblacional de la rana ladradora comn (Eleutherodactylus augusti) en el sur de Arizona: captura-recaptura, muestreo a distancia, conteo de vocalizaciones, y avistamientos. Debido al comportamiento y la ecologa de esta especie, todos los mtodos produjeron datos con demasiada variacin y sesgo, siendo poco tiles en el monitoreo del tamao poblacional. Para especies crpticas, como es el caso de E. augusti, los programas de monitoreo pueden ser ms efectivos si estos se centran en parmetros diferentes al tamao poblacional.
3672401|Several aquatic vertebrates have been introduced into freshwater systems in California over the past 100 years. Some populations of the two-striped garter snake (Thamnophis hammondii) have lived in sympatry with these species since their introduction; other populations have never encountered them. To assess the possible adaptation to a novel prey, we tested the predatory responses of T. hammondii from different populations to different chemosensory cues from native and introduced prey species. We presented chemical extracts from potential prey types and 2 control odors to individual snakes on cotton swabs and recorded the number of tongue flicks and attacks directed at each swab. Subject response was higher for prey odors than control substances. Odors from introduced centrarchid fish (Lepomis) elicited higher response levels than other prey types, including native anuran larvae (Pseudacris regilla). The pattern of response was similar for both populations of snakes (experienced and nave, with respect to the introduced prey). We suggest that the generalist aquatic lifestyle of T. hammondii has allowed it to take advantage of increasing populations of introduced prey. Decisions on the management strategies for some of these introduced prey species should include consideration of how T. hammondii populations might respond in areas of sympatry. /// Algunos vertebrados acuticos han sido introducidos en sistemas de agua dulce en California durante los ultimos 100 aos. Algunas poblaciones de la culebra de agua nmada de dos rayas (Thamnophis hammondii) han cohabitado con estas especies exticas desde su introduccin; otras poblaciones nunca las han encontrado. Para evaluar la posible adaptacin a una presa extica, probamos las respuestas predatorias de T. hammondii de distintas poblaciones a seales qumicosensoriales de especies de presas nativas e introducidas. Presentamos extractos qumicos de presas verdaderas y dos olores de control a cada culebra por medio de cotonetes y registramos el nmero de sacadas de lengua y ataques al cotonete. La respuesta de los sujetos fue ms intensa a olores de presas que a olores de control. Las culebras respondieron ms intensamente a olores del pez extico (Lepomis) que a otras presas, incluyendo el anuro nativo Pseudacris regilla. El patrn de respuesta fue similar para culebras de ambas poblaciones (con y sin experiencia con presas introducidas). Sugerimos que el comportamiento acutico generalista de T. hammondii le ha permitido aprovecharse del aumento de poblaciones introducidas. Decisiones en cuanto a las estrategias de manejo de algunas de las especies de presas introducidas deben considerar cmo las poblaciones de T. hammondii pueden responder en reas de simpatra.
3672402|The colubrid snake Tantilla equatoriana was described from 2 male specimens on the basis of several characters of color pattern and relatively high number of subcaudals. We examined the types and 3 additional specimens of T. equatoriana to assess whether the characters used to diagnose this taxon are unique or overlap with those of the highly variable, sympatric species T. melanocephala. Based on these data and a Principal Components Analysis of morphometric variation of T. equatoriana and T. melanocephala, we treat T. equatoriana as a junior synonym of T. melanocephala. /// La descripcin original del colbrido Tantilla equatoriana fue basada en dos especmenes machos y hace nfasis en los patrones de coloracin y el nmero relativamente alto de escamas subcaudales. Examinamos los especmenes tipo y tres especmenes adicionales de T. equatoriana para determinar si las caractersticas utilizadas para diagnosticar a esta especie son nicas o si se sobreponen con las de T. melanocephala, una especie simptrica muy variable. Basados en los resultados obtenidos y en un anlisis de componentes principales de la variacin morfomtrica de T. equatoriana y T. melanocephala, consideramos que T. equatoriana es un sinnimo secundario de T. melanocephala.
3672403|Reproductive data on the western cottonmouth, Agkistrodon piscivorus leucostoma, are scarce, generally incomplete, and usually based on pooled years for a given area. Current paradigms suggest that reproductive output in snakes can be influenced by local resource availability so temporal variation is important to document. Pregnant female western cottonmouths were collected for 3 consecutive years (2000-2002) from a lowland hardwood forest in northeastern Texas. This bottomland is exposed to flood pulses during winter that produce variable, but often large, amounts of prey for semi-aquatic snakes. Data recorded from 27 females indicated no difference in their snout-vent lengths (SVL) or masses among years. Of all reproductive traits, only clutch mass was correlated to female SVL and only in 1 year. Clutch mass and relative clutch mass varied temporally, suggesting reproductive output was influenced by prey availability. However, clutch size and mean offspring mass (that together comprise clutch mass) were both consistent among years. There was variation in mean offspring SVL and mass among females, and a negative correlation of both offspring characteristics to clutch size. These results suggest that the reproductive output of individual females might be responding to variation in prey availability in different ways (i.e., some by varying offspring number and others by modifying offspring size). Testing this hypothesis will require monitoring individual females for multiple years. /// Datos de la reproduccin de la vbora mocasin de boca de algodn, Agkistrodon piscivorus leucostoma son escasos, generalmente incompletos, y usualmente basados en varios aos agrupados de un rea especfica. Paradigmas actuales sugieren que el esfuerzo reproductivo de serpientes puede ser influenciado por la disponibilidad de recursos locales, por lo que es importante la documentacin de la variacin temporal de esos recursos. Hembras gravidas de la vbora fueron colectadas por tres aos consecutivos (2000-2002) en un bosque deciduo de tierra baja del noreste de Texas. Durante el invierno esta rea est expuesta a repetidas inundaciones que producen variable, pero a menudo, grandes cantidades de presas disponibles para serpientes semiacuticas. Los datos obtenidos de 27 hembras no indicaron una diferencia en la longitud hocicocloaca (LHC) o en el peso entre los aos. De todas las caractersticas reproductivas, nicamente el peso de la camada estuvo correlacionado con el LHC de la hembra y por slo un ao. El peso de la camada (PC) y el peso relativo de la camada variaron temporalmente, sugiriendo que el esfuerzo reproductivo estuvo influenciado por la disponibilidad de presas. Sin embargo, el tamao de la camada y el peso promedio de las cras (que juntos constituyen el PC) fueron consistentes durante los aos de estudio. Hubo una variacin en el LHC promedio de las cras y el peso de las hembras, y una correlacin negativa entre las dos caractersticas de las cras con el tamao de la camada. Estos resultados sugieren que el esfuerzo reproductivo de hembras individuales podra responder a la variacin en la disponibilidad de presas de modos diferentes (por ejemplo, algunas hembras varan el nmero de cras mientras que otras modifican el tamao de ellas). Probar esta hiptesis requerir un monitoreo individual de hembras durante varios aos.
3672404|The cause of variability in quail recruitment in semiarid environments is unclear but variability is associated with precipitation. We hypothesized that variation in the protein and energy nutrition of hens, resulting from variation in the biomass of invertebrates in diets, causes variation in the proportion of reproductively active females in the population. We tested predictions of the hypothesis that: 1) reproducing female northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) will consume greater biomass of invertebrates than males and nonlaying females, and 2) the proportion of laying females is related to standing invertebrate biomass. Data were collected from 2 sites in the Gulf Coast Prairies (1992-1993) and 2 sites in the Rio Grande Plains (1993) of Texas. Diets of laying females had 3 to 12.5 times more invertebrates than diets of males and 2.3 to 4.0 times more invertebrates than diets of nonlaying females. Although the mean dry mass (kg/ha) of invertebrates was 2.0 to 5.5 times higher in the Gulf Coast Prairies than in the Rio Grande Plains, the percentage of females laying (60 to 73%) was similar between region-years. Other hypotheses regarding reproductive failure of female quail should be investigated. /// La causa de la variabilidad en el reclutamiento de las codornices en ambientes semiridos sigue siendo indeterminada, pero la variabilidad se asocia con la precipitacin. Propusimos que la variacin en la protena y la energa nutritiva de las gallinas, que resulta de la variacin en la biomasa de invertebrados en sus dietas, causa la variacin en la proporcin de hembras reproductivamente activas en la poblacin. Probamos las predicciones de la hiptesis de que: 1) la codorniz coln de Virginia hembra (Colinus virginianus) activa reproductivamente consumir ms biomasa de invertebrados que los machos y las hembras que no son reproductivas, y 2) la proporcin de hembras reproductivamente activas se relaciona con la cantidad existente de biomasa invertebrada. Se colectarn datos en 2 sitios en las praderas de la Costa del Golfo (1992-1993) y en 2 sitios en las llanuras del ro Grande (1993) de Texas. Las dietas de gallinas reproductivamente activas tuvieron de 3 a 12.5 veces ms invertebrados que las de los machos y 2.3 a 4.0 veces ms invertebrados comparadas con las de las hembras no reproductivamente activas. Aunque el promedio de la masa seca (kg/ha) de invertebrados fue de 2.0 a 5.5 veces ms alto en las praderas de la Costa del Golfo que en las llanuras del ro Grande, el porcentaje de hembras que pusieron huevos (60-73%) fue similar entre las regiones-aos. Otras hiptesis con respecto al fracaso reproductivo de codornices hembras deben ser investigadas.
3672405|To evaluate the hypothesis that spotted owls (Strix occidentalis) select habitats with cool microclimates to avoid high daytime temperatures, I sampled thermal regimes in nest areas used by Mexican spotted owls (S. o. lucida) in northern Arizona. I sampled air temperature at 30-min intervals in 30 pairs of nest and random sites from May through August and used the resulting thermal profiles to estimate a suite of diurnal temperature parameters. I estimated diurnal energy use and evaporative water loss, and compared these estimates and temperature parameters between nest and random areas. Owl nest areas were significantly cooler than random areas, and estimated evaporative water loss was significantly lower in nest areas than in random areas. In contrast, there was little difference in estimated diurnal energy use between nest and random areas. These results support the hypothesis that Mexican spotted owls select cool habitats. Use of these cooler habitats apparently reduces diurnal evaporative water loss relative to random areas, suggesting that water balance might be more important in habitat selection by spotted owls than previously realized. However, selection of cool nest areas apparently does not result in large energy savings, at least in this high-elevation study area (mean elevation at nest areas in this study was 2,230 m). /// Para evaluar la hiptesis de que bhos moteados (Strix occidentalis) seleccionan hbitats con micro-climas frescos para huir de las altas temperaturas durante el da, muestree temperaturas en reas de nidificacin usadas por bhos moteados mexicanos (S. o. lucida) en el norte de Arizona. La temperatura ambiental fue medida en intervalos de 30 minutos en 30 pares de nidos y sitios seleccionados al azar durante los meses de mayo a agosto y los perfiles termales resultantes fueron usados para estimar diversos parmetros de temperaturas diurnas. Estim el uso diurno de energa y la prdida de agua por evaporacin y compar estas estimaciones y parmetros de temperaturas entre nidos y sitios seleccionados al azar. Las reas de nidificacin de bhos son significativamente ms fras que reas elegidas al azar, y estimaciones de prdida de agua por evaporacin fueron considerablemente ms bajas en nidos que en reas elegidas al azar. En contraste, hubo poca diferencia en la estimacin de uso diurno de energa entre reas de nidificacin comparada a reas seleccionadas al azar. Estos resultados corroboran la hiptesis de que los bhos moteados mexicanos seleccionan hbitats frescos. El uso de estos hbitats frescos aparentemente reduce la prdida diurna de agua por evaporacin, lo que sugiere que el balance de agua puede ser ms importante que lo antes pensado en la seleccin de hbitats por los bhos moteados. Sin embargo, la seleccin de nidos en reas frescas aparentemente no se traduce en grandes ahorros de energa al menos en grandes alturas (la altura promedio de las reas de nidificacin en este estudio fue 2,230 m).
3672406|The brood-parasitic bronzed cowbird (Molothrus aeneus) continues to expand its range in New Mexico and Texas. The current breeding range is 280 km outside of the historic breeding range. In Texas, spread rate increased from 6.22 km per year prior to 1956 to 13.75 km per year after 1956. Spread rate in New Mexico was constant at 12.72 km per year. Flight-range estimates based on fat indices of spring migrant cowbirds trapped at their northern range boundary in Texas suggest the potential for migration 341 km further north. We discuss factors that might limit or promote further range expansion. /// El parsito de nidada, tordo ojirojo (Molothrus aeneus) sigue extendiendo su rango geogrfico en Nuevo Mxico y Texas. El rango reproductivo actual es 280 km fuera del rango reproductivo histrico. En Texas, la tasa de expansin increment de 6.22 km/ao antes de 1956 a 13.75 km/ao despus de 1956. La tasa de expansin en Nuevo Mxico fue constante de 12.72 km/ao. Estimaciones de rango de vuelo basadas en el contenido de grasa en individuos capturados durante la migracin de primavera en la zona limtrofe norte en Texas sugieren el potencial de la especie para migrar otros 341 km hacia el norte. Presentamos factores que pueden limitar o promover la continuacin de la expancin del rango.
3672407|Local species richness in shrew (Soricidae) assemblages is often high, and the mechanisms of ecological separation remain relatively unexplored. In this study, hair samples from 6 species of Sorex in 3 separate assemblages were analyzed for stable carbon <tex-math>$({}^{13}\text{C}/{}^{12}\text{C})$</tex-math> and nitrogen <tex-math>$({}^{15}\text{N}/{}^{14}\text{N})$</tex-math> isotope ratios to investigate dietary differences. At each locality, common species exhibited a broad range in  <sup>15</sup>N and, to a lesser extent,  <sup>13</sup>C, whereas non-overlapping signatures characterized the less abundant species. Because the naturally occurring stable isotope ratios of carbon and nitrogen vary with microenvironment and trophic level, the results support the idea that shrews achieve coexistence through resource partitioning. This study is the first to report stable isotope data on syntopic shrews and provides a direction for future research into resolving the mechanisms of ecological separation in shrew communities. /// La riqueza local de las especies en comunidades de la musaraa (Soricidae) con frecuencia es alta y los mecanismos de separacin ecolgica siguen siendo relativamente inexplorados. En este estudio, las muestras del pelo de 6 especies de Sorex en 3 comunidades separadas fueron analizadas para calcular las proporciones de los istopos estables de carbn <tex-math>$({}^{13}\text{C}/{}^{12}\text{C})$</tex-math> y de nitrgeno <tex-math>$({}^{15}\text{N}/{}^{14}\text{N})$</tex-math> para investigar diferencias dietticas. En cada lugar, las especies comunes exhibieron una amplia gama en  <sup>15</sup>N, y un poco menos en  <sup>13</sup>C, mientras que proporciones no sobrepuestas caracterizaron las especies menos abundantes. Porque las proporciones de los istopos estables de carbn y de nitrgeno existen naturalmente, varan con el microambiente y el nivel trfico, los resultados apoyan la idea de que las musaraas alcanzan coexistencia por medio de divisin de recursos. Este es el primer estudio en divulgar datos de los istopos estables de musaraas sintpicas, y provee una direccin para la investigacin futura para resolver los mecanismos de la separacin ecolgica en comunidades de musaraas.
3672408|We used microhistological analysis of fecal pellets to identify plant species in diets of desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) in southeastern California and to investigate seasonal changes in use of forage classes. We identified 34 taxa of plants, 7 of which have not been reported previously in the diets of desert mule deer. Browse species were abundant in diets during all seasons, but were lowest in spring, when forb species were most commonly observed. Use of succulents generally was low, with highest use occurring in autumn (3 to 24%). Grasses composed 1% of the diet in all seasons. Our findings emphasize the diversity of plant species used by desert mule deer and, consequently, the importance of conserving habitats that provide for that diversity. /// Utilizamos el anlisis microhistolgico de fecas para identificar especies de plantas en la dieta de los venados buras del desierto (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) en el sureste de California, y para investigar cambios estacionales en el uso de las clases de forraje. Identificamos 34 taxa de plantas, 7 de las cuales no se han registrado previamente en las dietas de venados buras del desierto. Las especies leosas fueron abundantes en las dietas durante todas las estaciones, pero fueron ms bajas en la primavera cuando las especies de plantas de hojas anchas fueron ms comnmente observadas. El uso de suculentas fue generalmente bajo, con el uso ms alto ocurriendo en el otoo (3 a 24%). Los pastos constituyeron 1% de la dieta en todas las estaciones. Nuestros resultados enfatizan la diversidad de las especies de plantas usada por venados buras del desierto y, consecuentemente, la importancia de conservar hbitats que provean esa diversidad.
3672409|Beginning in the 1960s, the familiar giant swallowtail (Papilo cresphontes) expanded its range into southern California from the east. From 1996 through 2003, at least 23 giant swallowtails were seen at 13 locations in the northern portion of the Baja California Peninsula, representing the first records of this species in the Mexican state of Baja California. /// Desde principios de los 1960, la mariposa cola de golondrina gigante (Papilo cresphontes), ha expandido su rango de distribucin hacia el sur de California desde el este. Entre 1996 y 2003 al menos 23 mariposas cola de golondrina gigante fueron observadas en 13 lugares de la parte norte de la Pennsula de Baja California, representando los primeros registros de esta especie en el estado mexicano de Baja California.
3672410|We compared levels of DDE contamination in the eggs of burrowing owls (Athene cunicularia) from the Imperial Valley of California in 2002 to levels detected in eggs collected at the same site in 1996. Levels of DDE ranged from 0.10 to 3.01 g/g and were similar between years, suggesting a persistent, local source of contaminant for this resident population of owls. /// Comparamos los niveles del contaminante DDE en los huevos del bho machuelo excavador (Athene cunicularia) provenientes del Imperial Valley de California en el 2002 con los nivels detectados en huevos colectados en el mismo lugar en 1996. Los niveles de DDE variaron de 0.10 a 3.01 g/g y fueron similares entre aos, lo que sugiere una persistente fuente local de contaminante para esta poblacin residente de bhos.
3672411|In February 2000, we recorded mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) congregating at and drinking from a guzzler during nocturnal hours in the Chihuahuan Desert. Mourning doves might use nocturnal hours to maintain water balance in desert environments. /// En febrero del 2000, registramos palomas huilota (Zenaida macroura) reunindose en y tomando de una fuente de agua artificial en las horas nocturnas en el desierto de Chihuahua. Las palomas huilota pueden usar las horas nocturnas para mantener el balance de agua en ambientes desrticos.
3672412|The first record of western yellow bat (Lasiurus xanthinus) for Nevada was found at the Moapa Valley National Wildlife Refuge, Muddy River, Clark County in January 1999. Year-round residence and an active breeding colony were verified through 2000. Roosting and foraging seems concentrated within extensive California fan palm groves throughout the upper Moapa Valley. Capture and acoustic sampling showed this to be the second-most abundant species in the valley. The diet included Coleoptera, Diptera, Hemiptera, Homoptera, Lepidoptera, and Orthoptera. This record represents the northernmost distribution of the species. /// El primer registro del murcilago cola peluda de la laguna (Lasiurus xanthinus) en Nevada, fue hallado en enero de 1999 en el Moapa Valley National Wildlife Refuge, Muddy River, condado de Clark. Su residencia durante todo el ao y una colonia reproductivamente activa fueron verificadas hasta el ao 2000. El uso de perchas (dormideros) y la bsqueda de alimento parecen concentrarse en rodales extensos de palmas con hoja en abanico de California, localizados en la parte superior del Valle Moapa. Mediante capturas y registros acsticos se evidenci que L. xanthinus representa a la segunda especie ms abundante en el valle. Su dieta incluye insectos de los rdenes Coleptera, Dptera, Hemptera, Homptera, Lepidptera, y Ortptera. Este registro es el ms al norte de este murcilago.
3672413|We examined specimens of 3 species of rodents, which represent new records in the State of Colima, Mexico. This includes Reithrodontomys hirsutus, which had not been collected in more than 50 years, and the third recorded specimen of Reithrodontomys mexicanus riparius from western Mxico and formerly considered restricted to the State of Michoacn. /// Examinamos especmenes de 3 especies de roedores, que constituyen nuevos registros para el Estado de Colima, Mxico. Se incluye Reithrodontomys hirsutus que no se haba colectado desde hace ms de 50 aos y el tercer especimen registrado de Reithrodontomys mexicanus riparius del oeste de Mxico, anteriormente considerado restringido al estado de Michoacn.
3672414|Tree climbing behavior is rarely observed among the Canidae and has not been observed in kit foxes (Vulpes macrotis). While conducting another behavioral study in Bakersfield, California in November 2002, we observed kit foxes climb trees on 2 occasions. Our observations demonstrate that kit foxes are capable of climbing trees and of agile mobility among tree branches. Our observations also provide an example of the behavioral plasticity of kit foxes, a characteristic that might contribute to their ability to successfully inhabit anthropogenically altered environments. /// El trepar rboles es una actividad raramente observada en cnidos y no ha sido observado en el zorro de las praderas (Vulpes macrotis). Mientras estbamos llevando a cabo otro estudio de comportamiento en Bakersfield, California, en noviembre del 2002, observamos en dos ocasiones al zorro de las praderas trepando rboles. Nuestras observaciones demuestran que los zorros de las praderas son capaces de trepar rboles y adems moverse gilmente entre las ramas. Nuestras observaciones tambin demuestran la adaptabilidad de los zorros de las praderas, una caracterstica que puede ayudarlos a habitar exitosamente ambientes alterados por el ser humano.
3672415|We report new records of collared peccary (Pecari tajacu) in New Mexico that document its continued northward expansion in the United States, in general, and in northwestern New Mexico, in particular. These records might represent the northernmost extent of its range in the Southwest. Collared peccaries in New Mexico typically occur in desert, rocky, and brushy foothill regions and riparian communities. On the Zuni Indian Reservation, animals were observed at elevations up to 2,335 m in pion-juniper and ponderosa pine habitats. Climate might play an important role in range expansion and contraction as collared peccaries might migrate north during years of drought or mild winters in search of food or new habitat. /// Presentamos nuevos registros del pecar de collar (Pecari tajacu) en Nuevo Mxico que documentan su continua expansin al norte en los Estados Unidos en general, y en el noroeste de Nuevo Mxico, en particular. Estos datos pueden representar la extensin ms al norte de su rango en el suroeste. El pecar de collar en Nuevo Mxico suele ocurrir en zonas desrticas, parajes rocosos, y colinas con mucha vegetacin y en comunidades riparias. En la Zuni Indian Reservation se han observado animales en elevaciones hasta 2,335 m en hbitats de pin-enebro y pino ponderosa. Puede ser que el clima juegue un papel importante en la expansin y la contraccin de su rango de distribucin ya que el pecar de collar puede migrar al norte durante aos de sequa o inviernos templados en bsqueda de comida o hbitat nuevo.
3672416|Terrestrial habitats of Richland Creek Wildlife Management Area, Texas, were surveyed for vertebrate diversity in 1998 and 1999. During the 2-year sampling period, 10 species of amphibians, 20 species of reptiles, and 23 species of mammals were collected or observed. These actions represent an effort of Texas Parks and Wildlife to inventory the fauna of state-owned property. This information will begin to form a baseline to assess future management decisions. /// Llevamos a cabo un inventario de los vertebrados en hbitats terrestres del Richland Creek Wildlife Management Area, Texas, durante 1998 y 1999. Durante los dos aos del periodo de muestreo, observamos o colectamos 10 especies de anfibios, 20 especies de reptiles, y 23 especies de mamferos. Estas acciones representan un esfuerzo de Texas Parks and Wildlife para hacer un inventario de la fauna en las propiedades del estado. Esta informacin ser la base para evaluar futuras decisions de manejo de recursos naturales.
3672417|Additions to the archaeological fauna recovered from the former Chinatown section in El Paso, Texas (late 1800s), include lizard, ringtail, dog, killdeer, domestic goose, badger, domestic cat, jackrabbit, and cottontail. The latter 5 species likely were used for food. Two species of turtles used as food also are discussed. /// Las adiciones a la fauna arqueolgica recuperadas en la anterior seccin de Chinatown en El Paso, Texas (a finales de 1800), incluyen la lagartija, el cacomixtle, el perro, el tildo, el ganso domstico, el tejn, el gato domstico, la liebre, y el conejito. Las ltimas cinco especies probablemente fueron usadas como alimento. Tambin se discuten dos especies de tortugas usadas como alimento.
3672632|This study evaluated growth patterns of Mexican oregano (Lippia berlandieri) under salt stress and tested the hypothesis that this species is salt tolerant. Plants were grown in Hoagland solution with no NaCl added (control) and with increasing NaCl concentrations added to produce osmotic potentials of -0.30, -0.45, -0.60, -0.90, and -1.20 MPa. Relative growth rate decreased linearly and leaf weight decreased 9-fold as osmotic potential decreased from control to -1.20 MPa. We therefore concluded that, compared to other non-halophytes, Mexican oregano is only moderately tolerant of salinity. Root growth was less affected by salinity than leaf and stem growth. Relative growth rate of Mexican oregano varied from 0.01 to 0.08 g/g/d. These low values suggest a slow recovery process for plants in native stands subject to continuous harvesting. /// Este estudio evalu los patrones de crecimiento del organo mexicano (Lippia berlandieri) bajo condiciones de estrs salino y prob la hiptesis de que esta especie es tolerante a la salinidad. Las plantas fueron desarrolladas en solucin Hoagland libre de NaCl (testigo) y con diferentes concentraciones de NaCl para producir potenciales osmticos de -0.30, -0.45, -0.60, -0.90, y -1.20 MPa. La tasa relativa de crecimiento disminuy linealmente y el peso de las hojas disminuy 9 veces al disminuir el potencial osmtico de las soluciones desde la testigo hasta el tratamiento de -1.20 MPa. Con esta base concluimos que, en comparacin con otras plantas no halfitas, el organo mexicano es slo moderadamente tolerante a la salinidad. El crecimiento de la raz fue menos afectado por la salinidad que el crecimiento de hojas y tallos. La tasa relativa de crecimiento del organo mexicano vari de 0.01 a 0.08 g/g/d. Estos valores son bajos y sugieren una lenta recuperacin de las plantas de las poblaciones naturales que estn sujetas a continua recoleccin.
3672633|I investigated the response to fire of Arbutus arizonica, an important but little-studied tree species of fire-prone Madrean pine-oak communities of the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. Arbutus arizonica exhibited a marked ability to tolerate both moderate-severity and high-severity fire. Although all individuals were top-killed by high-severity fire, the shoots of nearly half of the trees survived moderate-severity fire, and most top-killed trees in both types of fire resprouted. Tree response to fire appeared to be governed by fire severity and tree size. Top-survival and epicormic resprouting after top-kill were both higher after moderate-severity than high-severity fire and increased with tree size. Levels of root crown resprouting, however, exhibited the opposite pattern. The results of this study suggest that A. arizonica has a capacity, similar to that found for sympatric Quercus species, to persist in a fire-prone environment. /// Investigu la reaccin al fuego de Arbutus arizonica, una importante pero poco estudiada especie de madroo que se halla en las comunidades propensas a fuegos en las reas del sudoeste de los Estados Unidos y del norte de Mxico. Arbutus arizonica exhibi una marcada habilidad para tolerar fuegos tanto de severidad moderada como altamente severos. A pesar de que la parte afuera de la tierra de todos los individuos muri por un fuego de alta severidad, los retoos de casi la mitad de los rboles sobrevivieron fuegos moderadamente severos, y la mayora de los rboles con sus partes superiores muertas en ambos tipos de fuegos brotaron nuevamente. La reaccin de los rboles al fuego parece estar dictaminada por la severidad del fuego y el tamao del rbol. Tanto la supervivencia de las partes superiores como el retoo epicrmico despus de la muerte de las partes superiores fueron ms altos despus de los fuegos moderados que de los severos, e incrementaron con el tamao del rbol. Sin embargo, los niveles de retoos de la corona de las races exhibieron el patrn contrario. Los resultados de ste estudio sugieren que A. arizonica tiene una capacidad, similar a la que se halla en especies simptricas como Quercus, para sobrevivir en un medio ambiente propenso a fuego.
3672634|We studied infection of Texas map turtles (Graptemys versa) by the acanthocephalan Neoechinorhynchus emydis using colon contents, stomach contents, and feces. Infection rates were higher in female than male turtles in 1949 in both prevalence of infection and mean number of worms per infected host. Based on detection of eggs in feces, infection rate has likely decreased recently. Given an analysis of prey remains from turtles in 1949 and 1998-1999, results are consistent with transmission of the parasite via accidental ingestion of its intermediate hosts, ostracods, during grazing by turtles on large, sessile aquatic organisms, rather than via snail paratenic hosts, as previously suggested. /// Estudiamos la infeccin en la tortuga mapa de Texas (Graptemys versa) por el acantocfalo Neoechinorhynchus emydis utilizando los contenidos del colon, estmago, y fecas. Las tasas de infeccin fueron ms altas en tortugas hembras que en machos en 1949 tanto en prevalencia de infeccin como en el nmero medio de gusanos por husped infectado. Basndonos en deteccin de huevos en las fecas, la tasa de infeccin probablemente ha disminuido recientemente. En un anlisis de restos de presas de tortugas en 1949 y 1998-1999 los resultados son consistentes con la transmisin del parsito va ingestacin accidental de sus huspedes intermedios, ostrcodos, durante el forrajeo por las tortugas de grandes organismos acuticos ssiles, en vez de va caracoles huspedes paratnicos, como previamente sugerido.
3672635|Vegetation plays a critical role in lizard activities such as thermoregulation. Less understood is the influence of vegetation structure on lizard mobility. This study examined the influence of cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum) patches on: 1) distribution patterns of the desert horned lizard (Phrynosoma platyrhinos) using transect surveys along an elevational gradient, and 2) sprint performance of adult and juvenile P. platyrhinos using raceways established under field conditions. There was a significant negative association between cheatgrass cover and lizard scat abundance across the study gradient, suggesting horned lizards might avoid areas with higher cheatgrass cover. Adult and juvenile sprint performance were reduced on grass raceways by 50 to 70% of their bare-substrate speeds; adult speeds decreased from 0.93 m/s on bare substrate to 0.26 m/s on grass, and juvenile speeds decreased from 0.41 to 0.11 m/s. The findings were consistent based on 2 independent measures of velocity (burst and sustained). These results demonstrate the negative effect of cheatgrass on horned lizard mobility and highlight the potential consequences of cheatgrass invasion on patterns of local Phrynosoma distribution in western North America. /// La vegetacin juega un papel importante en las actividades de los lagartos, tales como en la termorregulacin. Menos entendido es el efecto que tiene la estructura de la vegetacin sobre la movilidad del lagarto. Este estudio examina la influencia de parches del pasto Bromus tectorum en: 1) patrones de distribucin del camalen del desierto (Phrynosoma platyrhinos) usando observaciones de transectos a lo largo de una pendiente, y 2) la capacidad de correr de adultos y de juveniles de P. platyrhinos, utilizando pistas de carrera establecidas bajo condiciones de campo. Hubo una relacin significativa inversa entre la cubierta del pasto y la abundancia de heces de lagartos sobre la pendiente estudiada, sugiriendo que los camaleones del desierto evaden reas de ms pasto. La capacidad de correr de adultos y de juveniles se redujo sobre las pistas de pasto entre un 50 y 70% al compararse con las velocidades sobre el substrato sin pasto; la velocidad de los adultos baj de 0.93 m/s sobre el substrato sin pasto hasta 0.26 m/s sobre el substrato con pasto, y la velocidad de los juveniles se redujo de 0.41 hasta 0.11 m/s. Los resultados fueron consistentes basados en dos medidas independientes de velocidad (la velocidad en una distancia corta y la velocidad sostenida). Estos resultados demuestran el efecto negativo del pasto B. tectorum sobre la capacidad locomotora del camalen del desierto, y subraya las consecuencias posibles de la invasin del tal pasto en patrones de distribucin local de Phrynosoma en el oeste de Norteamrica.
3672636|Twenty-two beaded lizards (Heloderma horridum) showed their capacity to discriminate chemical cues of 9 sympatric snakes (potential predators of lizards) and 6 allopatric snakes. The study demonstrated a previously unknown ability to recognize and avoid dangerous snakes by this helodermatid. Experiments revealed differences among escape latency (ESC) in 60-s trials for this behavior. Mean number of seconds 1 SD for Boa constrictor was 2.81  1.68, Loxocemus bicolor was 9.41  1.99, Crotalus basiliscus was 3.04  1.59, Agkistrodon bilineatus was 3.54  1.60, Drymarchon corais was 10.77  2.31, and Masticophis mentovarius was 16.05  2.17. Other sympatric snakes used as controls, such as Micrurus distans, Trimorphodon biscutatus, and Oxybelis aeneus, elicited no aversive behavior presumably because they do not feed on helodermatids. Experiments also showed antipredator behaviors were elicited by the allopatric snakes Charina trivirgata (16.27  1.88 s), Crotalus molossus (6.36  1.73 s), and C. triseriatus (52.09  2.31 s), but not by Micrurus limbatus, Pituophis deppei, or Pseudoelaphe flavirufa. We hypothesize that extension of this behavior might involve phylogenetic relationship among sympatric and allopatric species of snakes in the same family. This behavioral response could have a pre-selective effect during geographical dispersion for some species like H. horridum. /// Veintids lagartos enchaquirados (Heloderma horridum) mostraron su capacidad para discriminar diferentes estmulos qumicos de entre nueve serpientes simptricas (potencialmente depredadoras de las lagartijas) y seis serpientes aloptricas. El estudio prob la habilidad, antes desconocida, de identificar y evitar a serpientes peligrosas por estos helodermtidos. Los experimentos revelaron una latencia de escape (ESC) diferencial con respecto al estmulo control en pruebas de 60 s de duracin para este comportamiento. El nmero promedio de segundos  1 DE en Boa constrictor fue de 2.81  1.68, Loxocemus bicolor 9.41  1.99, Crotalus basiliscus 3.04  1.59, Agkistrodon bilineatus 3.54  1.60, Drymarchon corais 10.77  2.31 y Masticophis mentovarius 16.05  2.17. Otras especies simptricas como Micrurus distans, Trimorphodon biscutatus y Oxybelis aeneus usadas como control no causaron comportamiento aversivo supuestamente porque no se alimentan de helodermtidos. El estudio tambin demostr que el comportamiento antidepredador de los lagartos fue causado por serpientes aloptricas como Charina trivirgata (16.27  1.88 s), Crotalus molossus (6.36  1.73 s) y C. triseriatus (52.09  2.31 s), pero no por Micrurus limbatus, Pituophis deppei y Pseudoelaphe flavirufa. Proponemos la hiptesis de que la causa de este comportamiento con las especies aloptricas se debe a la relacin de parentesco que tienen con las serpientes simptricas dentro de una misma familia. Esta respuesta biolgica podra tener un efecto preselectivo durante la dispersin geogrfica para algunas especies como H. horridum.
3672637|We documented a catastrophic decline in the island fox (Urocyon littoralis littoralis) population on San Miguel Island from 1994 to 1999, and used radiotelemetry to investigate mortality causes in the latter part of the decline. Annual population monitoring via capture-mark-recapture techniques revealed that densities of adult foxes declined up to 100% on 3 trapping grids monitored during the study period. The estimated population size on San Miguel declined from 450 adults in 1994 to less than 20 in 1999. Apparent survival of all age classes declined over the study. A radiotelemetry-based survival study conducted in 1998 and 1999 revealed high winter mortality, most likely due to golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos) predation. Necropsy of 7 carcasses during the study period confirmed raptor predation for 5 carcasses. Three carcasses were infested with a pathogenic parasite, Angiocaulus gubernaculatus, not found in island fox populations on San Nicolas, San Clemente, Santa Catalina, Santa Cruz, or Santa Rosa Islands, and 2 carcasses had Uncinaria stenocephala and colonic granulomas from Spirocerca infection. Because pup production was low and reproductive effort limited in young females, the island fox population on San Miguel is unlikely to recover without significant intervention. In 1999, 14 island foxes were brought into captivity, and only 1 was known to exist in the wild on San Miguel Island. /// Documentamos una declinacin catastrfica en la poblacin del zorro Urocyon littoralis littoralis en la Isla de San Miguel entre 1994 y 1999, y usamos radiotelemetra para investigar las causas de la mortalidad en la ultima parte de la declinacin. El muestreo anual de la poblacin por medio de tcnicas captura-recaptura indic que la densidad de los zorros adultos declin hasta un 100% en tres cuadrantes durante el periodo de estudio. El tamao poblacional estimado en San Miguel declin de 450 adultos en 1994 a menos de 20 en 1999. La supervivencia aparente de todas clases de edad declin durante este periodo. Un estudio de supervivencia conducido en 1998 y 1999 por medio de radiotelemetra revel alta mortalidad durante el invierno, debida probablemente a la depredacin por la guila real (Aquila chrysaetos). Anlisis postmortem de 7 carcasas durante el estudio confirm la depredacin por aves de presa en 5 carcasas. Tres carcasas fueron infestadas con un parsito patognico, Angiocaulus gubernaculatus, que no se encuentra en las poblaciones de zorros en las islas de San Nicols, San Clemente, Santa Catalina, Santa Cruz o Santa Rosa, y 2 carcasas tuvieron Uncinaria stenocephala y granulomas en el colon de la infeccin Spirocerca. Porque la produccin de cachorros fue baja y la capacidad reproductiva limitada en las zorras jvenes, la poblacin del zorro en San Miguel probablemente no se recupere sin intervencin importante. En 1999, 14 zorros fueron apresados para cautiverio, y se sabe de 1 solo zorro que segua viviendo libre en la isla de San Miguel.
3672638|Morphometric variation in the cranium, mandible, and dentition of the Blancan coyote, Canis lepophagus, and the modern coyote, Canis latrans, was evaluated using discriminant function analysis to determine if continuous characters can be used to differentiate these 2 taxa. Measurements from 88 continuous characters were partitioned into 4 groups (cranial, upper dentition, mandibular, and lower dentition) and analyzed separately to evaluate whether isolated or fragmentary specimens support species-level discrimination. Measurements from the most complete, Irvingtonian-aged coyote skull were added to the analyses as an unknown to assess the morphometric affinity of this fossil specimen. Results indicate that complete morphometric separation is possible between C. lepophagus and C. latrans, but only using cranial or mandibular data. This separation is maintained for crania when the number of analyzed measurements is reduced to as little as 1 (height of the braincase). In contrast, a suite of mandibular measurements is needed to establish non-overlapping morphometric separation. The Irvingtonian-aged skull consistently groups with C. latrans, supporting the presence of the modern coyote in the Irvingtonian. /// Variacin morfomtrica del crneo, mandbula, y dentadura del coyote extinto, Canis lepophagus, y del coyote actual, Canis latrans, fue evaluada usando anlisis de funciones discriminantes para determinar si carcteres continuos se pueden utilizar para distinguir estos dos taxa. Las medidas de 88 carcteres continuos fueron divididos en cuatro grupos (craneal, de la dentadura superior, mandibular, y de la dentadura de la mandbula) y analizadas por separado para evaluar si especmenes aislados o fragmentarios confirman la discriminacin a nivel de especie. Medidas del crneo ms completo del coyote "Irvingtonian" fueron agregadas a los anlisis como un desconocido para determinar la afinidad morfomtrica de este espcimen fsil. Los resultados indican que la separacin morfomtrica completa es posible entre C. lepophagus y C. latrans, pero solamente con datos craneales o mandibulares. Esta separacin se mantiene para el crneo cuando el nmero de medidas analizadas se reduce hasta tan poco como 1 (altura de la cpsula craneal). En contraste, un juego de medidas mandibulares es necesaria para establecer separacin morfomtrica que no se traslapa. El crneo "Irvingtonian" consistentemente se agrupa con C. latrans, apoyando la presencia del coyote moderno en el "Irvingtonian."
3672639|The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) is a gene complex closely linked to the vertebrate immune system due to its importance in antigen recognition and immune response to pathogens. As a result, the MHC has been considered a basis for genetic quality because of the devastating impact that parasites and disease can have on fitness. To improve our understanding of the MHC and parasite resistance in free-ranging species, we gathered data on genetics and parasite loads of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) to determine whether the DRB region of the MHC contains alleles that are associated with abundance, intensity, and prevalence of parasites. Mean abundance and intensity of abomasal nematodes were strongly associated with phylogenetic groupings of Odvi-DRB alleles. Infection of ectoparasitic ticks was strongly associated with Odvi-DRB alleles but had a positive association with alleles from a different evolutionary lineage than abomasal nematodes. Our data suggest that allelic composition of the Mhc-DRB of white-tailed deer in southeastern Oklahoma might represent a genetic trade-off. Deer with alleles from the same Mhc-DRB evolutionary clade had strong resistance to one class of parasite, either abomasal nematodes or ectoparasitic ticks, whereas deer with alleles from both lineages tended to have moderate resistance to both pathogens, although weaker. /// El compuesto mayor de histocompatibilidad (MHC) es un complejo del gene cercanamente ligado al sistema de inmunidad en vertebrados debido a su importancia en el reconocimiento de antgenos y a la respuesta inmunolgica a los patgeno. Consecuentemente, el MHC se ha considerado una base para la calidad gentica debido al impacto devastador que los parsitos y enfermedades pueden tener en el estado fsico. Para mejorar nuestro entendimineto del MHC y de la resistencia del parsito en un rango-libre de especies recogimos datos sobre la gentica y carga parasitaria de los venados de cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus) y as poder determinar si la regin de DRB del MHC contiene alelos que se asocien con la abundancia, intensidad, y predominio de parsitos. La abundancia y la intensidad promedio de nematodos abomasales se encontraron fuertemente asociadas a agrupaciones filogenticas de los alelos Odvi-DRB. La infeccin de ectoparsitos (garrapatas) se encontr fuertemente asociada a los alelos de Odvi-DRB pero tena una asociacin positiva con alelos de un linaje evolutivo distinto a los nematodos abomasales. Nuestros datos sugieren que la composicin alelica del Mhc-DRB en los venados de cola blanca en el sudeste de Oklahoma puede representar una compensacin gentica. Los venados con alelos de la misma evolucin cladistica de Mhc-DRB tenan fuerte resistencia a una clase de parsito, ya sea a los nematodos abomasales o a ectoparsitos (garrapatas), mientras que los venados con los alelos de ambos linajes tendieron a tener resistencia moderada a ambos patgenos, aunque la resistencia fue ms dbil.
3672640|Using an index of saguaro (Carnegiea gigantea) growth rate, relative growth was compared among multiple saguaro populations and mapped across the American range of the species. Relative growth at 10 sites was strongly linked to summer precipitation. This is the first study of relative growth and the first to link growth rate to environmental variables in multiple populations. /// Usando un ndice de la tasa de crecimiento del saguaro (Carnegiea gigantea), se compar el crecimiento relativo entre poblaciones mltiples de saguaro y se ilustr a travs del rango americano de la especie. El crecimiento relativo en 10 sitios fue fuertemente ligado a la precipitacin de verano. Este es el primer estudio de crecimiento relativo y el primero en ligar la tasa de crecimiento a variables ambientales en poblaciones mltiples.
3672641|Principal components analyses (PCA) suggest that Acacia constricta and A. neovernicosa rarely hybridize, 1 lone probable hybrid being reported from Durango, Mexico. In contrast, hybrids of A. neovernicosa and A. schottii seem to be more common. Probable hybrids involving these 2 species were found in Brewster and Presidio counties, Texas, all within the known geographic range of A. schottii. /// Anlisis de componentes principales (PCA) sugiere que Acacia constricta y A. neovernicosa raramente sufren hibridizacin, solo se registra 1 probable hbrido de Durango, Mxico. En contraste, hbridos de A. neovernicosa y A. schottii parecen ser ms frecuentes. Hbridos probables de estas dos especies se encontraron en los condados de Brewster y Presidio, Texas, todos adentro del rango conocido de A. schottii.
3672642|We compared fish survey data across 3 collection periods (1952 to 1968, 1976 to 1994, and 2001 to 2002) from Independence Creek (Rio Grande drainage, Terrell County, Texas) to assess long-term changes in fish assemblage structure. The number of species collected declined from 28 in the 1952 to 1968 collection period, to 26 (plus 1 hybrid) in the 1974 to 1994 collection period, and to 23 (plus 1 hybrid) in the 2001 to 2002 collection period. Species loss included 5 native fishes that currently persist in the adjoining Pecos River and 4 species that were non-native to the lower Pecos River. Species additions included species native to the Pecos River that rarely inhabit smaller tributary streams and species that were introduced into the Pecos River. Twenty species were collected consistently from 1952 through 2002. Unweighted averages of abundant species across collection periods were Dionda episcopa (32%), Gambusia spp. (23%), Cyprinella proserpina (11%), C. lutrensis (10%), and Notropis amabilis (9%). Although apparent extirpations and additions of several rare species (<1% in relative abundance each) were noted, the Independence Creek fish assemblage remained similar during the last 50 years, in contrast to the general trend of native species reductions in much of the Rio Grande drainage. /// Comparamos los datos de estudios pesqueros en el arroyo Independencia (cuenca del ro Grande, condado de Terrell, Texas), a lo largo de tres perodos de colecta (1952 a 1968, 1976 a 1994 y 2001 a 2002), para evaluar los cambios a largo plazo en la estructura del ensamblaje de peces. El nmero de especies colectadas declin de 28 en el periodo 1952 a 1968, a 26 (ms 1 hbrido) en el periodo 1974 a 1994 y a 23 (ms 1 hbrido) en el periodo 2001 a 2002. La prdida de especies incluy a 5 especies de peces nativas que actualmente persisten en el adyacente ro Pecos y 4 especies no nativas de la parte baja del mismo ro. El aumento de especies incluy especies nativas del ro Pecos que rara vez habitan en los pequeos arroyos tributarios y especies que fueron introducidas al ro Pecos. Veinte especies fueron colectadas consistentemente, de 1952 a 2002. Los promedios no ajustados de las especies abundantes a lo largo de los periodos de colecta fueron Dionda episcopa (32%), Gambusia spp. (23%), Cyprinella proserpina (11%), C. lutrensis (10%), y Notropis amabilis (9%). An cuando hubo erradicaciones y aumentos aparentes de varias especies raras (<1% de abundancia relativa de cada una), el ensamblaje de peces del arroyo Independencia se mantuvo similar durante los ltimos 50 aos, en contraste con la tendencia general en la reduccin de especies nativas en la mayor parte de la cuenca del ro Grande.
3672643|Although historic records of the alligator snapping turtle, Macrochelys temminckii, show a past distribution throughout eastern Oklahoma, little is known about the current status and distribution of this species in the state. surveys were initiated to identify extant populations of M. temminckii and assess their relative densities and viability. We surveyed 67 sites in 15 counties, with a total effort of 1,085 net nights. A total of 63 M. temminckii was captured at 11 sites, which are only in the southeastern quarter of the state and occur only in protected or isolated locations. Because of this apparent decrease of the range of this species in Oklahoma and because so few sites exhibited capture rates high enough to suggest possible healthy populations, we conclude that dramatic population declines of M. temminckii have taken place in Oklahoma. Possible reasons for these declines include overharvest and habitat alteration. /// Aunque los registros histricos de la tortuga Macrochelys temminckii demuestran una distribucin anterior en todo el este de Oklahoma, no se sabe mucho del estatus y distribucin actual de la especie en el estado. En 1997, se iniciaron muestras para identificar poblaciones actuales de M. temminckii y para evaluar sus abundancias relativas y viabilidad. Muestreamos 67 sitios en 15 condados con un esfuerzo total de 1,085 red-noches. Un total de 63 M. temminckii fue capturado en 11 sitios, que se ubican solamente en el cuarto sureste del estado y se encuentran solamente en localidades protegidas o aisladas. Debido a esta aparente disminucin de la distribucin de esta especie en Oklahoma y debido a que slo unos cuantos sitios mostraron tasas de captura tan altas para sugerir poblaciones saludables, concluimos que declines dramticos de M. temminckii han ocurrido en Oklahoma. Las razones posibles para los declines incluyen la casera excesiva y la alteracin del hbitat.
3672644|This report documents a breeding range extension of the black-necked stilt (Himantopus mexicanus) in Coahuila, Mexico. /// Se amplia la distribucin del rea de reproduccin del candelero americano (Himantopus mexicanus) en el estado de Coahuila, Mxico.
3672645|While conducting a study of golden-fronted woodpecker (Melanerpes aurifrons) territorial behavior and site fidelity in west-central Texas in 1996, I observed a color-banded male interacting with 2 females in a manner consistent with pair-bonding. This behavior, which was previously unreported for this species, was observed late in the breeding season and continued through the following winter. No nesting attempts were observed, but the male and females did exhibit typical mate behavior, including the exchanging of mate-greeting calls and displays. The females occupied separate, adjacent territories, both of which the male regularly occupied. The chronology of events and potential factors influencing such behavior are discussed. /// Durante un estudio sobre el comportamiento territorial y fidelidad al sitio del carpintero cheje (Melanerpes aurifrons) en la parte central del oeste de Texas en 1996, observ la asociacin de un macho marcado con anillos de color con 2 hembras en una manera consistente con la formacin de la pareja. Este comportamiento, que no se haba registrado previamente en esta especie, se observ tarde en la temporada de apareamiento y continu hasta el siguiente invierno. No se observaron tentativas de nidificar, pero el macho y las hembras mostraron comportamiento tpico de parejas, incluyendo el intercambio de vocalizaciones de reconocimiento y cortejo. Las hembras ocuparon territorios separados y adyacentes, los cuales fueron tambin ocupados regularmente por el macho. Se discuten la cronologa de eventos y los factores probables que influencian dicho comportamiento.
3672646|The natural history of Elliot's short-tailed shrew (Blarina hylophaga) has remained virtually unknown since it was recognized as a distinct species in 1981. For this study, we examined 26 specimens of B. hylophaga for ectoparasites. We found 5 species of fleas, 1 species of tick, and 17 species of mites. We also examined stomach contents of 30 specimens of B. hylophaga and discovered that insects (particularly beetles), slugs, and spiders were the most common food items. To determine the degree of similarity between B. hylophaga and the 2 other widely distributed short-tailed shrews, we compared these data to the published ectoparasite and food habits data for B. carolinensis and B. brevicauda. We found that both the ectoparasitic fauna and the diet of B. hylophaga broadly overlap those of its congeners. We also noted, however, that each species of Blarina had parasites that were more closely associated with it than with the other 2 species of Blarina. In addition, the diet of B. hylophaga consists of harder-bodied foods, containing more beetles, fewer earthworms, and less fungi than that of the other 2 species. /// La historia natural de la musaraa Blarina hylophaga ha quedado virtualmente desconocida desde que fue reconocida como una especie distinta en 1981. En este estudio examinamos los ectoparsitos de 26 B. hylophaga. Encontramos 5 especies de pulga, 1 especie de garrapata, y 17 especies de caro. Tambin examinamos los contenidos estomacales de 30 especmenes de B. hylophaga y se descubri que los insectos (particularmente escarabajos), babosas y araas fueron la comida ms comn. Para determinar el grado de semejanza entre B. hylophaga y las otras dos musaraas ampliamente distribuidas, comparamos estos datos con los publicados de ectoparsitos y hbitos alimenticios de B. carolinensis y B. brevicauda. Encontramos que ambos la fauna de ectoparsitos y la dieta de B. hylophaga se sobrelapan ampliamente con las de sus congneres. Sin embargo, notamos tambin que cada especie de Blarina tuvo parsitos que estn cercanamente asociados con la misma que con las otras 2 especies de Blarina. Adems, la dieta de B. hylophaga consiste de comida ms dura, conteniendo ms escarabajos, menos lombrices y menos hongos que la de las otras 2 especies.
3672647|We report on the first documented nest of Miller's shrew (Sorex milleri) from the Maderas del Carmen, Coahuila, Mxico. We located 7 nests in mesic montane forest at 2,400 to 2,700 m elevation during October and November 2003. /// Reportamos el primer nido documentado de la musaraa (Sorex milleri), de Maderas del Carmen, Coahuila, Mxico. Se localiz un total de 7 nidos en las mesetas boscosas hmedas de 2,400 hasta 2,700 m de elevacin durante octubre y noviembre del 2003.
3672648|I report distributional records that document the presence of 3 additional species of bats (Carollia sowelli, Lasiurus ega, and Eptesicus furinalis) for the fauna of El Salvador, Central America. /// Se reportan registros de distribucin que documentan la presencia de 3 especies adicionales de murcilagos (Carollia sowelli, Lasiurus ega, y Eptesicus furinalis) para la fauna de El Salvador, Centroamrica.
3672649|We recently collected specimens of red foxes (Vulpes vulpes) in northwestern Texas and northeastern New Mexico that extend the known range of this species in both states. In Texas, the new record likely represents a western range expansion of introduced red foxes that had spread across the state during the past 100 years. In New Mexico, the new record likely represents a westward expansion from Texas, or possibly an eastward or northward expansion from previously documented populations in the state. /// Recientemente colectamos especmenes de zorra roja (Vulpes vulpes) en el noroeste de Texas y noreste de Nuevo Mxico, con lo que se extiende la distribucin conocida de esta especie en ambos estados. El nuevo registro en Texas probablemente representa la expansin hacia el oeste de zorras rojas introducidas que se han extendido a travs del estado en los ltimos 100 aos. El nuevo registro en Nuevo Mxico probablemente representa la expansin hacia el oeste desde Texas, o posiblemente la expansin hacia el este o norte de poblaciones previamente documentadas en el estado.
3672650|Little is known about the distribution of jaguar (Panthera onca) in Sinaloa. We provide current information about the distribution of this species in this state. Different areas of the state were visited, and people were interviewed from May 2000 to May 2002. We obtained 57 records, of which 41 are new; records were most abundant in the southern half of the state. The extensive areas still covered by tropical deciduous forest in good condition are important for the conservation of the jaguar. The density of prey species for jaguar seems to be high according to local residents. Free-ranging cattle also are distributed in all areas of the state, and predation on cattle is common. Ranchers regularly kill jaguars using poisons (strychnine), dogs, steel traps, and shooting. The abundance of records suggests that the jaguar still exists in Sinaloa, especially in the mountainous areas, but there is an urgent need to conduct additional studies to determine its actual status. /// Se sabe poco de la distribucin del jaguar (Panthera onca) en Sinaloa. Proveemos informacin actual de la distribucin de esta especie en este estado. Se visitaron diferentes reas del estado y se entrevist a los lugareos de mayo del 2000 al mayo del 2002. Se presentan 57 registros de los cuales 41 son nuevos registros; los registros fueron ms abundantes en la mitad sur del estado. Las extensas reas todava cubiertas por bosque tropical caducifolio en buena condicin son importantes para la conservacin del jaguar. La densidad de las especies que conforman las presas del jaguar son aparentemente altas de acuerdo con las personas entrevistadas. El ganado vacuno tambin se encuentra distribuido por todo el estado, y la depredacin del ganado parece ser comn. Los rancheros regularmente matan a los jaguares usando venenos (estricnina), perros, trampas de acero y disparndoles. La abundancia de registros sugiere que el jaguar an existe en Sinaloa, especialmente en la zona serrana, pero hay una necesidad urgente de conducir ms estudios para determinar su estado actual.
3672851|This vegetation study describes the plant associations of El Vizcano Biosphere Reserve (Baja California, Mexico) as determined by the Braun-Blanquet method and supported by cluster analysis. Twenty-two associations were identified, 7 of which are described for the first time (Camissonio crassifoliae-Encelietum ventori, Encelio phenocodontae-Atriplicetum polycarpae, Lycietum brevipedis, Errazurizio benthamii-Pachycormetum veatchianae, Merremio aureae-Lysilometum candidae, Opuntio taponae-Burseretum microphyllae, and Suaedo taxifoliae-Allenrolfeetum occidentalis). Ecological, biogeographical, bioclimatic, and floristic data are provided for each of these new associations. /// Se estudia la vegetacin de la Reserva de la Biosfera de El Vizcano (Baja California, Mxico) describiendo las asociaciones a travs del mtodo de Braun-Blanquet apoyado en anlisis de cluster. Se identificaron 22 asociaciones, de las cuales 7 se describen por primera vez (Camissonio crassifoliae-Encelietum ventori, Encelio phenocodontae-Atriplicetum polycarpae, Lycietum brevipedis, Errazurizio benthamii-Pachycormetum veatchianae, Merremio aureae-Lysilometum candidae, Opuntio taponae-Burseretum microphyllae y Suaedo taxifoliae-Allenrolfeetum occidentalis). Para cada una de estas nuevas asociaciones se aportan sus caractersticas ecolgicas, biogeogrficas, bioclimticas y florsticas.
3672852|A model of vicariance speciation has been proposed to explain the proliferation of psammophilic (sand loving) species in several endemic genera of scorpions. The current distribution of Paruroctonus utahensis (Williams, 1968) populations on isolated sand dunes seems to fit this model; therefore, this species was examined to test the model for psammophilic population distribution and haplotype variation. A portion of the mitochondrial rDNA gene was sequenced from 44 individuals representing 7 populations of P. utahensis. Three individuals of Paruroctonus gracilior (Hoffmann, 1931) and 1 individual of Paruroctonus boquillas Sissom and Henson, 1998, were used for outgroup comparison. A maximum parsimony heuristic search indicated that the basal populations were in the south and derived populations occurred in the northeastern portion of the range. A nested clade analysis found a statistically significant correlation between haplotypes and their geographical distribution at several clade levels. The biological cause of this association was best explained by allopatric fragmentation. Our data supported the vicariance model of isolation by fragmentation of a larger habitat to explain the variation seen among populations of P. utahensis. /// Ha sido propuesto un modelo de especiacin vicariante para explicar la proliferacin de especies samfilas (amantes de la arena) en varios gneros endmicos de escorpiones. La distribucin actual de poblaciones de Paruroctonus utahensis (Williams, 1968) en dunas aisladas parece corresponder con este modelo; por eso, se examin esta especie para probar la validez del modelo de la distribucin de poblaciones psammfilas y la variacin haplotpica. Se secuenci una porcin del gene mitocondrial rDNA de 44 individuos, representando 7 poblaciones de P. utahensis. Tres individuos de Paruroctonus gracilior (Hoffmann, 1931) y un individuo de Paruroctonus boquillas Sissom and Henson, 1998, se usaron para la comparacin extragrupal. Una bsqueda heurstica de mxima parsimonia indic que las poblaciones bsicas se encuentran en el sur y que las poblaciones derivadas ocurren en la parte noreste de la distribucin. Un anlisis cladstico anidado proporcion una correlacin estadsticamente significativa entre los haplotipos y su distribucin geogrfica a diferentes niveles cladsticos. La causa biolgica de esa asociacin se explica mejor a travs de la fragmentacin aloptrica. Nuestros datos apoyan el modelo vicariante de aislamiento por fragmentacin de un hbitat ms grande para explicar la variacin que se nota entre poblaciones de P. utahensis.
3672853|The helmet and large spines of zooplankton inhibit predation by small fishes. Daphnia lumholtzi, a long-spined, helmeted cladoceran, has recently invaded Lake Texoma (Oklahoma-Texas) and much of southeastern North America. To determine if inland silversides (Menidia beryllina) were size-selective predators on D. lumholtzi, we conducted laboratory experiments using 3 size-classes of fish (22 to 35 mm, 46 to 60 mm, and 67 to 80 mm). Inland silversides were allowed to feed for 80 min on D. lumholtzi of various sizes. Prey selection differed among the 3 silverside size-classes. Small inland silversides ate more small D. lumholtzi (total length 0.99 to 1.75 mm) than did large and medium inland silversides. Large inland silversides ate more large (2.62 to 3.44 mm) and very large (3.5 to 5.25 mm) D. lumholtzi than did smaller inland silversides. To examine if these trends occur in nature, we compared the lengths of D. lumholtzi and native Daphnia species (D. parvula and D. galeata) eaten by large and small inland silversides collected from Lake Texoma. As in the laboratory experiment, small inland silversides ate smaller D. lumholtzi than did large inland silversides. Although small inland silversides ate smaller D. lumholtzi, D. lumholtzi might be an important food source for young-of-the-year inland silversides, because D. lumholtzi reaches peak abundances during summer when native daphnid densities are low in Lake Texoma. /// El casco y las espinas grandes del zooplanton inhiben la depredacin por peces pequeos. Daphnia lumholtzi, un cladcero con casco y espinas largas, ha invadido recientemente el lago Texoma (Oklahoma-Texas) y una gran parte del sudeste de Norteamrica. Para determinar si los plateaditos (Menidia beryllina) son depredadores tamao-selectivos en D. lumholtzi, condujimos experimentos de laboratorio usando tres clases de tamao de peces (22 a 35 milmetros, 46 a 60 milmetros, y 67 a 80 milmetros). Se permiti a los plateaditos alimentarse durante 80 minutos de D. lumholtzi de varios tamaos. La seleccin de la presa se diferenci entre las tres clases de tamao del plateadito. Los plateaditos pequeos comieron ms pequeos D. lumholtzi (longitud total 0.99 a 1.75 milmetros) que los plateaditos grandes y medianos. Los plateaditos grandes comieron ms grandes (2.62 a 3.44 milmetros) y muy grandes (3.5 a 5.25 milmetros) D. lumholtzi que plateaditos ms pequeos. Para examinar si estas tendencias ocurren en la naturaleza, comparamos las longitudes de D. lumholtzi, y las especies nativas del Daphnia (D. parvula y D. galeata), comidas por los plateaditos grandes y pequeos colectados en el lago Texoma. Como en el experimento de laboratorio, los plateaditos pequeos comieron D. lumholtzi ms pequeos que los plateaditos grandes. Aunque los plateaditos pequeos comieron D. lumholtzi ms pequeos, el D. lumholtzi puede ser una fuente importante de alimento para los plateaditos cras en su primer ao porque el D. lumholtzi alcanza abundancias mximas durante el verano cuando las densidades de los dfnidos nativos son bajas en el lago Texoma.
3672854|Turtle assemblages in Oklahoma are potentially interesting because the species pool is a mixture of eastern and western species, several of which are approaching their longitudinal geographic range boundaries in Oklahoma. From 1996 to 2002, we captured 1,940 turtles in 12 assemblages in central Oklahoma. Pond area ranged from 0.04 to 26.1 ha. Species composition was a mixture of 2 ubiquitous and 3 rare species. Trachemys scripta and Chelydra serpentina occurred in 11 and 10 assemblages, respectively. The rare species included Pseudemys concinna (4 assemblages), Kinosternon flavescens (3), and Apalone spinifera (1). In ponds with multiple species, T. scripta was always the most abundant species (mean  SD percentage of individuals captured = 80.0  27.4%) and C. serpentina was always the second most abundant (18.5  27.7%). Population density and biomass of T. scripta and C. serpentina varied an order of magnitude and approached maximum published values. /// La comunidad de tortugas en Oklahoma es potencialmente interesante porque el conjunto de especies es una mezcla del este y del oeste, algunas de las cuales estn alcanzando sus lmites geogrficos longitudinalmente en Oklahoma. Desde 1996 hasta el 2002 hemos capturado 1,940 tortugas en 12 comunidades en el centro de Oklahoma. El rea de los estanques abarca de 0.04 a 26.1 ha. La composicin de especies fue una mezcla de 2 especies muy comunes y 3 especies raras. Trachemys scripta y Chelydra serpentina fueron halladas en 11 y 10 comunidades, respectivamente. Las especies raras incluyeron Pseudemys concinna (en 4 comunidades), Kinosternon flavescens (3) y Apalone spinifera (1). En estanques con especies mltiples, T. scripta fue siempre la especie ms abundante (promedio  desviacin estndar del porcentaje de individuos capturados = 80.0  27.4%) y C. serpentina fue siempre la segunda especie ms abundante (18.5  27.7%). La densidad y biomasa poblacional de T. scripta y de C. serpentina variaron un orden de magnitud y se acercaron a los mximos valores publicados.
3672855|We characterized differences in escape behavior among syntopic parthenogenetic and gonochoristic whiptail lizards (Teiidae: Aspidoscelis) in western Texas by performing 2 experiments. The first experiment revealed that Aspidoscelis exsanguis (parthenogenetic) allowed a human simulated predator to approach significantly closer than Aspidoscelis neomexicana (parthenogenetic), and both species allowed a significantly closer approach than Aspidoscelis tigris (gonochoristic). Furthermore, A. neomexicana and A. exsanguis did not flee as far as A. tigris, but this difference in flight distance was not statistically significant. Temperature was not correlated with approach distance or flight distance for any of the above species. The second experiment determined that, when captured, Aspidoscelis tesselata (parthenogenetic) was more likely to release cloacal contents on a human captor than A. tigris (gonochoristic). /// Caracterizamos diferencias en comportamiento de escape entre lagartijas rayadas sintpicas (Teidae: Aspidoscelis), unas partenogenticas y otras gonocorsticas en el oeste de Texas al ejecutar 2 experimentos. El primero revel que Aspidoscelis exsanguis (partenogentica) permiti acercar a un depredador simulado por un humano significativamente ms que Aspidoscelis neomexicana (partenogentica), y ambas especies permitieron un acercamiento significativamente ms cerca que Aspidoscelis tigris (gonochorstica). Adems, A. neomexicana y A. exsanguis no huyeron tan lejos como A. tigris, pero esta diferencia no fue estadsticamente significativa. La temperatura no estuvo correlacionada con distancia de acercamiento o con distancia de escape para ninguna de las especies mencionadas. El segundo experimento determin que, cuando se captura, A. tesselata (partenogentica) suele defecar ms en un aprehensor humano que A. tigris (gonochorstica).
3672856|Reproductive and fat body cycles were studied in a population of viviparous lizards (Sceloporus grammicus) from the Teotihuacn area, state of Mexico between October 1984 and September 1985. Males reached sexual maturity at a snout-vent length (SVL) of 44.5 mm and at an age of 6 to 7 mo; females reached sexual maturity at 44.1 mm SVL and at an age of 8 to 9 mo. Testicular mass of adult males began to increase in size in May and peaked during July, August, and September. Maximum testicular growth was associated with precipitation, but not with temperature and photoperiod. Enlarged vitellogenic follicles appeared during October, and females contained embryos in stages 1 through 8 during November. Females had embryos in later embryonic stages 29 through 40 from January to April. Vitellogenesis and embryonic development were associated with increasing photoperiod, temperature, and precipitation. Mean litter size was 5.09  0.24 (2 to 9). Mean RCM was 0.338  0.024 (0.015 to 0.80). Litter size and RCM were positively correlated with female SVL. /// El ciclo reproductivo y de los cuerpos grasos fueron estudiados en una poblacin de lagartijas vivparas (Sceloporus grammicus) del rea de Teotihuacn, estado de Mxico entre octubre de 1984 y septiembre de 1985. Los machos alcanzaron la madurez sexual a los 44.5 mm de longitud hocico-cloaca (LHC) a una edad de 6 a 7 meses; las hembras alcanzaron la madurez sexual a los 44.1 mm de LHC a una edad de 8 a 9 meses. La masa testicular de los machos adultos comenz a incrementar en tamao en mayo y alcanz el pico mximo durante julio, agosto, y septiembre. El mximo crecimiento testicular estuvo asociado con la precipitacin, pero no con la temperatura y fotoperodo. Folculos vitelognicos agrandados aparecieron durante octubre y las hembras mostraron embriones en los estadios 1 al 8 durante noviembre. Las hembras presentaron embriones en los ltimos estadios de desarrollo del 29 al 40 de enero a abril. La vitelognesis y el desarrollo embrionario estuvieron asociados con el incremento en fotoperodo, temperatura, y precipitacin. El tamao medio de la camada fue de 5.09  0.24 cras (2 a 9). La media de la masa relativa (RCM) fue de 0.338  0.024 (0.015 a 0.80). El tamao de la camada y la RCM estuvieron positivamente correlacionados con la LHC de la hembra.
3672857|We studied movements of 36 juvenile Mohave ground squirrels (Spermophilus mohavensis) during their first active season, until immergence into hibernation, a period that lasted from late May to late August. For all radiocollared individuals, the mean greatest distance between any 2 locations was 1,520 m for males (range 110 to 6,230 m) and 505 m for females (range 105 to 3,862 m). Eleven individuals (6 females, 5 males) with known litter affiliations were followed from their initial capture until inactive underground: males moved a mean distance of 2,920 m (range 0 to 6,230 m), and females moved a mean distance of 753 m (range 0 to 3,862 m) between their natal area and hibernation site. Ten individuals (8 males, 2 females) moved distances >1 km. Individuals making long-distance movements were likely to have traversed habitat that would be considered marginal for adult Mohave ground squirrels. Long-distance movement by juveniles might be critical for connecting local populations and recolonizing sites after local, drought-related extirpation. /// Estudiamos los desplazamientos de 36 jvenes de la ardilla de tierra de Mohave (Spermophilus mohavensis) durante su primera temporada activa hasta que comenzaron la invernada, o sea durante el periodo de finales de mayo a finales de agosto. Para todos los individuos con radiotransmisores al cuello, la mayor distancia media entre cualquiera de dos lugares fue de 1,520 m para los machos (rango 110 a 6,230 m) y de 505 m para las hembras (rango 105 a 3,862 m). Once individuos (6 hembras y 5 machos) con conocidas afiliaciones de camada fueron seguidos desde su captura inicial hasta su inactividad subterrnea: los machos se desplazaron una distancia media de 2,920 m (rango 0 a 6,230 m) y las hembras una distancia de 753 m (rango 0 a 3,862 m) entre su rea natal y el sitio de la invernada. Diez sujetos (8 machos, 2 hembras) se desplazaron una distancia de >1 km. Los individuos que se desplazaron una larga distancia probablemente cruzaron hbitat que se considerara subptimo para los adultos de la ardilla de tierra de Mohave. Los desplazamientos de distancia larga de las ardillas jvenes pueden ser decisivos para conectar las poblaciones locales y para volver a colonizar los sitios despus de la extincin local debido a la sequa.
3672858|We conducted a preliminary study using small field crews, a single Anabat II detector coupled with a laptop computer, and point transects to examine patterns of bat activity at a scale of interest to local resource managers. The study was conducted during summers of 1996-1998 in Bandelier National Monument in the Jemez Mountains of northern New Mexico, a landscape with distinct vegetation zones and high species richness of bats. We developed simple models that described general patterns of acoustic activity within 4 vegetation zones based primarily on nightly variation and a qualitative index of habitat complexity. Bat acoustic activity (number of bat passes/point) did not vary dramatically among a limited sample of transects within a vegetation zone during 1996. In 1997 and 1998, single transects within each vegetation zone were established, and bat activity did not vary annually within these zones. Acoustic activity differed among the 4 vegetation zones of interest, with the greatest activity occurring in riparian canyon bottomland, intermediate activity in coniferous forest and a 1977 burned zone, and lowest activity in pion-juniper woodlands. We identified 68.5% of 2,529 bat passes recorded during point-transect surveys to species using an echolocation call reference library we established for the area and qualitative characteristics of bat calls. Bat species richness and composition differed among vegetation zones. Results of these efforts were consistent with general knowledge of where different bat species typically forage and with the natural history of bats of New Mexico, suggesting such a method might have value for drawing inferences about bat activity in different vegetation zones. /// Condujimos un estudio preliminar usando pequeos equipos de investigadores del campo y un detector Anabat II conectado a una computadora laptop, y transectos de puntos para examinar patrones de actividad de murcilagos en una escala de inters a los gerentes locales de recursos naturales. El estudio fue realizado durante los veranos de 1996-1998 en Bandelier National Monument en las montaas Jemez del norte de Nuevo Mxico (Estados Unidos), un paisaje con distintas zonas de vegetacin y altos niveles de riqueza de especies de murcilagos. Desarrollamos modelos simple que describi patrones generales de actividad acstica, basado fundamentalmente en localizacin del transecto, variacin nocturna, y un ndice cualitativo de complejidad de hbitat. Actividad acstica de murcilagos (nmero de veces que pasan murcilagos por un punto) no vari dramticamente entre un muestreo limitado de transectos en una zona de vegetacin durante 1996. En 1997 y 1998 se establecieron transectos mltiples en cada zona de vegetacin, y la actividad de murcilagos no vari anualmente entre las zonas. Actividad acstica vari entre las cuatro zonas de vegetacin de inters, con la actividad ms alta en las zonas bajas riparias de can, actividad intermedia en bosque confero y en una zona quemada en 1977, y la actividad ms baja en bosques de pin-junpero. Identificamos 68.5% de 2,529 pasos de murcilagos registrados durante los muestreos de transectos de puntos usando una gama de llamadas de ecolocacin que establecimos para la regin y caractersticas cualitativas de llamadas de murcilagos. Riqueza y composicin de especies de murcilagos difirieron entre zonas de vegetacin. Los resultados de estos esfuerzos concordaron con conocimiento general del lugar donde diferentes especies de murcilagos forrajean tpicamente y con la historia natural de murcilagos de Nuevo Mxico, sugiriendo que un mtodo tal pueda tener valor para sacar inferencias sobre actividades de murcilagos en diferentes zonas de vegetacin.
3672859|Seventeen middens of the bushy-tailed packrat (Neotoma cinerea), ranging in age from 3450  40 to 160  50 radiocarbon years before present (B.P.), were collected in 1996 from the Upper Gunnison Basin, Colorado. Eight of these subfossil middens contained plant remains from species that no longer occur near the locations of the middens. Radiocarbon dates on conifer remains indicated shifts in forest communities in the late Holocene at 3320, 560, and 240 B.P. Past climates were cooler than today at 3320 B.P., when mixed lodgepole (Pinus contorta) and ponderosa pine (P. ponderosa) forest expanded to lower elevations in the basin. Conditions became warmer between 1500 to 950 B.P., with additional cooling from 660 to 170 B.P., corresponding with cooling periods in the 1300s and during the Little Ice Age (500-150 B.P. or 1500-1850 CE). These data indicated that the late Holocene of Colorado was marked by episodes of climate change that previously have not been identified in the paleoclimatic record. /// Diecisiete nidos del roedor Neotoma cinerea de entre 3450  40 a 160  50 aos de radiocarbono antes del presente (A.P.), fueron recolectados del Upper Gunnison Basin, Colorado, en 1996. Ocho de estos nidos subfsiles contenan restos de plantas de especies actualmente inexistentes en los alrededores del rea de donde se encontraron los nidos. Dataciones de radiocarbono en restos de conferas indicaron variaciones en las comunidades de bosque correspondientes al Holoceno tardo en 3320, 560, y 240 A.P. Climas pasados fueron ms fros que hoy en 3320 A.P., cuando bosques mixtos de Pinus contorta y P. ponderosa se expandieron a elevaciones ms bajas de la cuenca. Hubo un calentamiento entre 1500 a 950 aos A.P., con un enfriamiento adicional de 660 a 170 aos A.P., correspondiendo con periodos de enfriamiento en los aos de 1300 y durante la Pequea Edad de Hielo (550-150 A.P. o A.D. 1500-1850). Estos datos indicaron que el Holoceno tardo en Colorado estuvo marcado por episodios de cambio climtico no identificados previamente en el registro paleoclimtico.
3672860|We investigated the hypothesis that the squirting of blood from orbital sinuses by Texas horned lizards (Phrynosoma cornutum) is an antipredator defense against some mammalian species. Coyotes (Canis latrans) were tested for the first time. As expected, Texas horned lizards squirted blood in response to coyote attacks, and coyotes exhibited startle response, avoidance response, or both as a result of these events. Whereas lizard carcasses mixed into normal food-mash elicited regurgitation by coyotes, possibly due to physical effects, blood of horned lizards similarly mixed into food did not. Coyote responses to simulated squirts of 5 compounds, including blood of horned lizards, into 3 potential sensory target areas (eyes, nose, and mouth) strongly suggested that aversive effects were mediated by receptors in the oral or nasal cavities. Coyote responses were more frequent to delivery of blood plasma and whole blood of Phrynosoma to buccal and nasal membranes than to delivery of plasma and blood from spiny lizards (Sceloporus jarrovii) or to delivery of a saline control to these membranes. We concluded that Texas horned lizards squirt blood from sinuses surrounding the eyes during attacks by canids, such as coyotes, and that this blood affects oral receptors, causing a negative response in coyote attack behavior that potentially increases survival of the lizards. /// Investigamos la hiptesis de que el lanzamiento de un chorro de sangre por los senos orbitales por los camaleones texanos (Phrynosoma cornutum), es una defensa antidepredatoria contra algunas especies mamferas. Coyotes (Canis latrans) fueron probados por primera vez. Como era de esperarse, los camaleones arrojaron sangre en respuesta a los ataques de los coyotes, y los coyotes se mostraron sorprendidos, las evitaron, o hicieron ambos como resultado de los eventos. Mientras que los cadveres de las lagartijas mezcladas con alimento tpico provocaron vmito en los coyotes, posiblemente debido a efectos fsicos, la sangre de camaleones mezclada con la comida no lo produjo. Las respuestas de los coyotes a lanzamientos simulados de 5 compuestos, incluyendo sangre de camaleones, hacia 3 reas potencialmente sensitivas del coyote (ojos, nariz y boca), sugieren fuertemente que los efectos de rechazo fueron provocados por receptores en cavidades orales o nasales. Respuestas de coyotes fueron ms frecuentes con lanzamiento de plasma sanguneo y sangre entera de Phrynosoma a las membranas nasales y orales que con lanzamiento de plasma y sangre provenientes de lagartijas espinosas (Sceloporus jarrovii), o con lanzamiento de un control salino en esas membranas. Concluimos que los camaleones arrojan chorros de sangre por los senos que rodean sus ojos durante ataques de caninos, como coyotes, y que esta sangre afecta los receptores orales, causando una respuesta negativa en el comportamiento del ataque del coyote que probablemente incrementa la supervivencia de las lagartijas.
3672861|Track counting is a quick, easy, cost-effective technique to estimate the population density of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). By employing the double-count procedure, I generated 2 models in which track counts were calibrated to estimate the density of deer in dry tropical forest in Chamela on the Mexican Pacific Coast. For both models, I calibrated a track index using density obtained from the line-transect method as a reference. The first model was based on simple linear regression and the second on the strip-transect method. I discuss the usefulness of these models for monitoring local populations as well as possible applications in other regions. /// Contar huellas es una tcnica fcil, rpida, y poco costosa para estimar la densidad poblacional del venado cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus). Empleando el procedimiento del doble conteo, gener 2 modelos en los que se calibra el conteo de huellas para estimar la densidad de venado en el bosque tropical seco de Chamela, en la costa Pacfica de Mxico. En ambos modelos, calibr el conteo de huellas usando como referencia la densidad obtenida con el mtodo de conteo en transectos de lnea. El primer modelo se bas en una regresin lineal simple, y el segundo en el mtodo de transecto de franja. Discuto la utilidad de estos modelos para monitorear poblaciones locales as como la posibilidad de aplicaciones en otras regiones.
3672862|Maps of vertebrate distributions resulting from the Kansas Gap Analysis were compared with maps based on ecological-niche modeling of primary point-occurrence information. The latter maps were considerably more predictive of independent sets of test data than were the Gap maps, further supporting the idea that the method of Gap wildlife-habitat modeling has little analytical power. In general, the Kansas Gap maps were untested and unchecked, thus being heterogeneous, unreliable, and of little use for further analyses. /// Se compararon los mapas de distribuciones de vertebrados que resultaron del programa de anlisis de "Gap" del estado de Kansas con mapas que se derivaron de modelaje de nichos ecolgicos de datos de informacin primaria de puntos de ocurrencia. Estos ltimos resultaron con bastante ms poder predictivo de juegos de datos de pruebas independientes que los mapas de Gap, apoyando an ms a la idea de que el mtodo de modelaje de hbitat silvestre de Gap tiene poco poder analtico. En general los mapas que se produjeron en el proyecto de Gap en Kansas no fueron probados ni revisados, y finalmente fueron heterogneos, no confiables, y de poco valor para anlisis posteriores.
3672863|A recent survey of benthic macroinvertebrates of the Cuatro Cienegas basin found 118 species in the 21 sites collected. Four exotic macroinvertebrates that could threaten the native biota were found within or near the basin. /// Una inspeccin reciente de macroinvertebrados bnticos del bolsn de Cuatro Cinegas encontr 118 especies en los 21 sitios que se muestrearon. Cuatro macroinvertebrados exticos que podran amenazar la biota nativa se encontraron dentro o cerca del bolsn.
3672864|Sampling from April 2001 to March 2003 revealed San Felipe Creek, Val Verde County, Texas, still supported a breeding population of the threatened Devils River minnow (Dionda diaboli). The species was restricted to creek habitats and was not found in the outflow channels of San Felipe Springs. We determined that breeding populations of introduced tropical fish species Hypostomus (a South American armored catfish) and Oreochromis aureus (an African cichlid) also were present in San Felipe Creek. We obtained evidence to suggest that presence of exotic species, particularly Hypostomus, might have a negative effect on the Devils River minnow. We recommend periodic monitoring of fish populations in San Felipe Creek to document future changes in the population of Devils River minnow and other endemic species, and to facilitate design and implementation of conservation plans in San Felipe Creek. /// Muestreos entre abril de 2001 y marzo de 2003 mostraron que el riachuelo San Felipe, condado de Val Verde, Texas, todava alberga una poblacin reproductiva de la amenazada sardinita Dionda diaboli. La especie estuvo restringida a los hbitats del arroyo, y no se encontr en los canales de corrientes del manantial de San Felipe. Determinamos que poblaciones reproductivas de las especies introducidas de peces tropicales Hypostomus (un bagre de Sudamrica) y Oreochromis aureus (un cclido africano) tambin estn presentes en el riachuelo de San Felipe. Obtuvimos evidencia para sugerir que la presencia de especies exticas, particularmente Hypostomus, podra tener un efecto negativo sobre la sardinita D. diaboli. Recomendamos monitoreo peridico de las poblaciones de peces en el riachuelo de San Felipe para documentar cambios futuros en la poblacin de la sardinita y otras especies endmicas, y para facilitar el diseo e implementacin de planes de conservacin en el riachuelo de San Felipe.
3672865|We examined 50 amphibians of 4 species (Bufo marinus, B. nebulifer, Rana berlandieri, and Scaphiopus couchii) from 4 localities in the state of Nuevo Len, Mexico. We collected 7 species of digeneans (Cephalogonimus americanus, Clinostomum sp. (metacercariae), Haematoloechus complexus, Halipegus occidualis, Langeronia cf. macrocirra, L. cf. jimenezi, and Megalodiscus americanus) and 1 monogenean (Pseudodiplorchis americana), 3 cestodes (Distoichometra bufonis, Ophiotaenia filaroides, and larvae of 1 proteocephalidean), and 4 nematodes (Cosmocercoides sp., Chabaudgolvania sp., Rhabdias flleborni, and R. savagei). Eleven host records are new, and the geographic ranges of C. americanus, H. occidualis, P. americana, O. filaroides, Chabaudgolvania sp., Cosmocercoides sp., R. flleborni, and R. savagei are expanded by these records. /// Examinamos 50 anfibios de 4 especies (Bufo marinus, B. nebulifer, Rana berlandieri, y Scaphiopus couchii) de 4 localidades en el estado de Nuevo Lon, Mexico. Se recolectaron 7 especies de digneos (Cephalogonimus americanus, Clinostomum sp. (metacercarias), Haematoloechus complexus, Halipegus occidualis, Langeronia cf. macrocirra, L. cf. jimenezi y Megalodiscus americanus), 1 monogneo (Pseudodiplorchis americana), 3 cstodos (Distoichometra bufonis, Ophiotaenia filaroides y larvas de un Proteocephalidea) y 4 nemtodos (Cosmocercoides sp., Chabaudgolvania sp., Rhabdias flleborni y R. savagei). Once de los registros de hospedero son nuevos y se ampla la distribucin geogrfica de C. americanus, H. occidualis, P. americana, O. filaroides, Chabaudgolvania sp., Cosmocercoides sp., R. flleborni y R. savagei.
3672866|We compared several life history characteristics between 2 syntopic color pattern classes (Conchas C-E and Conchas D) of parthenogenetic Aspidoscelis tesselata from Conchas Lake, New Mexico. These pattern classes lacked significant differences in mean clutch size, mean size of gravid females, SVL frequency distributions of gravid females, and SVL frequency distributions of complete samples. We then compared the Conchas Lake assemblage to the other 2 pattern class assemblages (Higbee, Colorado, and Sumner Lake, New Mexico) whose life history characteristics had been previously reported. Comparisons of life history attributes within and between the 3 assemblages augment morphological and genetic evidence that each population of pattern class D was derived by mutation from individuals of pattern classes C or C-E in different geographic areas. /// Comparamos varias caractersticas de historia de vida entre 2 clases sintpicas de patrones de coloracin (Conchas C-E y Conchas D) de la lagartija partenogentica Aspidoscelis tesselata de lago Conchas, Nuevo Mxico. Estos patrones de coloracin no presentaron diferencias significativas en el tamao promedio de la puesta, tamano promedio de las hembras grvidas, distribucin de frecuencias de LHC de hembras grvidas, y distribucin de frecuencias de LHC de las muestras completas. Entonces, comparamos la ensambladura del lago Conchas con las otras 2 ensambladuras de clase (Higbee, Colorado, y lago Sumner, Nuevo Mexico) cuyas caractersticas de historias de vida han sido reportadas previamente. Comparaciones de los atributos de historias de vida dentro y entre las 3 ensambladuras aumentan la evidencia morfolgica y gentica de que cada poblacin con un patrn de coloracin clase D se deriv por mutacin de individuos con patrones de coloracin clases C o C-E en diferentes localidades geogrficas.
3672867|We studied the reproductive characteristics, such as snout-vent length (SVL) at sexual maturity, clutch size, and egg volume, and morphological characteristics [head length (HL), head width (HW), femur length (FL), and tibia length (TL)] in Aspidoscelis deppii and A. guttata from Oaxaca, Mexico. In A. deppii, males were larger in SVL than females, whereas in A. guttata, females were larger than males. Males of A. deppii had larger morphological structures, such as HL, HW, FL, and TL, than females; in contrast, males and females of A. guttata were similar, except in TL, in which females were larger. Mean clutch size was 2.3 for A. deppii and 4.5 for A. guttata. Females of A. deppii had smaller egg volume than females of A. guttata. Both A. deppii and A. guttata respond to the environmental factors from this region, but in different ways. /// Estudiamos las caractersticas reproductivas tales como longitud hocico-cloaca (LHC) a la madurez sexual, tamao de la puesta y volumen del huevo, y las caractersticas morfolgicas [largo de la cabeza (LC), ancho de la cabeza (AC), largo del fmur (LF), y largo de la tibia (LT)] in Aspidoscelis deppii y A. guttata de Oaxaca, Mxico. En A. deppii, los machos fueron ms grandes en LHC que las hembras, mientras que en A. guttata, las hembras fueron ms grandes que los machos. Los machos de A. deppii presentaron estructuras morfolgicas ms grandes, como LC, AC, LF, y LT que las hembras; en contraste, machos y hembras de A. guttata fueron similares, excepto en LT, en que las hembras fueron ms grandes. La media del tamao de la puesta fue de 2.3 en A. deppii y de 4.5 en A. guttata. Las hembras de A. deppii presentaron un volumen ms pequeo que las de A. guttata. Ambas especies A. deppii y A. guttata responden a los factores ambientales de la regin, pero en diferente forma.
3672868|Herpetofaunal diversity of the Fort Wolters Military Installation, Texas, was surveyed from September 2002 through August 2003. During the 1-y sampling period, all amphibian and reptile sampling methods combined resulted in 1,421 captures of 10 species of amphibians (all anurans) and 25 species of reptiles. These actions represent an effort of the Texas Army National Guard to inventory the flora and fauna of federal property and create a baseline for future monitoring and management. /// La herpetofauna de la Fort Wolters Military Installation, Texas, fue monitoreada de septiembre de 2002 a agosto de 2003. Durante el ao del periodo de muestreo, todos los mtodos de muestreo de anfibios y reptiles combinados resultaron en 1,421 de 10 especies de anfibios (todos anuros) y 25 especies de reptiles. Estas acciones representan un esfuerzo del Texas Army National Guard de llevar a cabo un inventario de la flora y fauna de la propiedad federal y de crear una base para futuros monitoreos y manejo.
3672869|Avian collisions with human-made objects are relatively common; however, documented avian collisions with naturally occurring objects are rare in scientific literature. On 22 April 2002, we observed a tree swallow (Tachycineta bicolor) entangled in the spines of a teddy bear cholla (Opuntia bigelovii) in the Tule Mountains, Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona. Two possible causes of this incident include the swallow flying into the teddy bear cholla, possibly being blown by a gust of wind, or being placed there by a loggerhead shrike (Lanius ludovicanus). Because of the flying abilities of swallows and documented diets of loggerhead shrikes, either would be unusual. /// Los choques de aves con objetos hechos por humanos son relativamente comunes, sin embargo los choques de aves con objetos naturales son raramente documentados en la literatura cientfica. El 22 de abril del 2002, observamos una golondrina bicolor (Tachycineta bicolor) enredada en las espinas de una choya gera (Opuntia bigelovii) en las montaas de Tule, Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona. Dos causas posibles del incidente incluyen que la golondrina bilocor choc con la choya, posiblemente empujada por una rfaga del viento, o puede haber sido colocada all por un acaudn verdugo (Lanius ludovicanus). Debido a capacidades del vuelo de las golondrinas bicolor y las dietas documentadas de los acaudones, cualquiera de estas posibilidades sera inusual.
3672870|In New Mexico, the tawny-bellied cotton rat (Sigmodon fulviventer) previously was known only from central and southwestern parts of the state. In central New Mexico, most records were from areas of tall grass and marshes associated with the middle Rio Grande valley. In 2003, we discovered S. fulviventer in grassy and marshy habitats >100 km west of the Rio Grande in west-central New Mexico. Because past surveys in this region did not report captures of Sigmodon, we suspect our distributional records represent recent westward expansion of S. fulviventer in the state. /// En Nuevo Mxico, la rata algodonera vientre leonado (Sigmodon fulviventer) ha sido restringida a la regin central y suroeste del estado. En el centro de Nuevo Mxico, la mayora de los registros provenan de reas de pasto alto y vegas asociados a la parte intermedia del valle ro Grande. En 2003, descubrimos S. fulviventer en pastizales y hbitats pantanosos a >100 km al oeste del ro Grande en el centro-oeste de Nuevo Mxico. Debido a que monitoreos previos en esa zona no revelaron capturas de Sigmodon, sospechamos que nuestros registros de distribucin representan una expansin reciente de S. fulviventer al oeste del estado.
3672871|We observed black bears (Ursus americanus) foraging on aggregations of army cutworm moths (Euxoa auxiliaris) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) in subalpine felsenmeers (block fields) in the Jemez Mountains of New Mexico. Moth aggregations serve as food for grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) in the northern Rocky Mountains of Wyoming and Montana. However, black bears have not been reported to use these aggregations, nor have such aggregations been documented to occur this far south in the Rocky Mountains. /// Observamos osos negros (Ursus americanus) alimentndose de agregaciones de la mariposa (Euxoa auxiliaris) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) en felsenmeers (campos de rocas) subalpinos de las montaas Jemez de Nuevo Mxico. Estas agregaciones sirven de alimento para el oso pardo (Ursus arctos horribilis) en el norte de las Montaas Rocosas de Wyoming y Montana. Sin embargo, no se haba registrado el uso de estas agregaciones por los osos negros, ni se haban documentado estas agregaciones tan al sur en las Montaas Rocosas.
3672471|The southwestern Phlox species P. dolichantha, P. superba, P. stansburyi, and P. grayi are a group of morphologically similar species that differ notably in the length of their corolla tubes (approximately 35 to 45 mm, 26 to 33 mm, 19 to 25 mm, and 13 to 16 mm, respectively). We assessed insect visitation to these 4 species over 24-h periods during peak flowering. A diverse array of visitors was documented, including members of the orders Lepidoptera, Diptera, Hymenoptera, and Coleoptera. Although Phlox is generally considered to exhibit a lepidopteran pollination syndrome, all of these species experienced some visitation from non-lepidopterans. Phlox superba and P. grayi received greatest visitation from a hawkmoth (Hyles lineata), and P. dolichantha and P. stansburyi received the most visits from small flies (Anthomyia and Tachypeza, respectively). All Phlox species were visited by lepidopterans, and the hawkmoth species H. lineata was observed visiting all 4 species. Bees were only observed visiting the shorter-tubed P. stansburyi and P. grayi, although bees were present among populations of all 4 species. Our findings suggest that these Phlox species might be more generalist than previously hypothesized and that further investigation into plant-pollinator interactions in the group might contribute to our understanding of their floral evolution. /// Las especies Phlox dolichantha, P. superba, P. stansburyi y P. grayi, miembros del gnero Phlox del sudoeste, son un grupo de especies morfolgicamente semejantes que difieren notablemente en la longitud del tubo de la corola (aproximadamente 35 a 45 mm, 26 a 33 mm, 19 a 25 mm, y 13 a 16 mm, respectivamente). Evaluamos la visita de insectos a estas 4 especies durante perodos de 24 horas durante la floracin mxima. Una serie diversa de visitantes se document, incluyendo miembros de los rdenes Lepidptera, Dptera, Hymenptera y Coleptera. Aunque generalmente se considera que Phlox exhibe un sndrome de polinizacin por Lepidptera, cada especie recibi visitas de otros rdenes. Phlox superba y P. grayi recibieron ms visitas de una polilla (Hyles lineata), y P. dolichantha y P. stansburyi recibieron ms visitas de moscas pequeas (Anthomyia y Tachypeza, respectivamente). Todas las especies de Phlox fueron visitadas por lepidpteros, y la especie de polilla H. lineata fue observada visitando las 4 especies. Las abejas fueron observadas visitando slo las especies con tubos ms cortos, P. stansburyi y P. grayi, aunque las abejas estuvieron presentes entre poblaciones de las 4 especies. Nuestros hallazgos sugieren que estas especies de Phlox pueden ser ms generalistas de lo que se ha sugerido previamente, y que ms investigacin de las interacciones entre planta y polinizadora en el grupo puede contribuir a nuestro conocimiento de su evolucin floral.
3672472|Since its introduction into the United States, the imported red fire ant (Solenopsis invicta Buren), a freeze-intolerant species, has extended its range northward and now occupies areas where winter temperatures are consistently below freezing. The objective of our study was to determine if more northern S. invicta had greater supercooling capability than more southerly S. invicta. Such information would help to delineate the northern boundary of range expansion. We collected S. invicta colonies in early summer, late summer, and early spring from 3 locations along a latitudinal gradient in Texas. Supercooling point determinations were made immediately after colonies were collected and after colonies were acclimated in the laboratory for 1 and 2 months. Regardless of time or acclimation period, the northernmost colonies (-5.91  0.21C) had higher mean supercooling points than the southernmost colonies (-16.49  0.11C). Colonies from central Texas had intermediate mean supercooling points (-10.40  0.19C). This pattern is difficult to explain. Tests from a broader geographic range might allow us to better assess supercooling ability in S. invicta. Additionally, we tested whether supercooling points were affected by body size. We found no relationships between supercooling points and head capsule widths. However, there was little variation in head capsule widths of the minor workers that we measured. Differences in supercooling points might be evident only on a larger scale of body size. /// Desde su introduccin en los Estados Unidos, las hormigas de fuego importadas (Solenopsis invicta Buren), una especie intolerante a temperaturas bajo cero, ha extendido su rango de distribucin hacia el norte y ahora ocupa reas donde las temperaturas invernales estn frecuentemente bajo cero. El objetivo de nuestro estudio fue determinar si la ms nortea S. invicta tiene mayor capacidad de supercongelamiento que la ms surea S. invicta. Dicha informacin ayudar a delinear la zona limtrofe norte en el rango de expansin. Colectamos colonias de S. invicta al inicio del verano, la ltima parte del verano, y al inicio de la primavera en 3 zonas a lo largo de un gradiente latitudinal en Texas. Puntos de supercongelamiento se determinaron inmediatamente despus de las colectas y despus de que las colonias fueron aclimatadas a condiciones de laboratorio por uno y dos meses. Independientemente de la temporada o del tiempo de aclimatacin, las colonias ms norteas (-5.91  0.21C) presentaron promedios superiores de supercongelamiento que las colonias ms sureas (-16.49  0.11 C). Las colonias del centro de Texas mostraron una capacidad de supercongelamiento intermedia (-10.40  0.19 C). Este patrn es difcil de explicar. Pruebas provenientes de un rango geogrfico ms amplio podran permitirnos determinar mejor la capacidad de supercongelamiento de S. invicta. Adems, estudiamos si los puntos de supercongelamiento fueron afectados por el tamao corporal. No encontramos ninguna relacin entre puntos de supercongelamiento y ancho de la cpsula de la cabeza. Sin embargo, existi una variacin pequea en el ancho de la cpsula de las cabeza de los trabajadores que medimos. Diferencias en puntos de supercongelamiento pueden ser evidentes slo en un rango ms amplio de tamao corporal.
3672473|Africanized honeybees, hybrids between African (Apis mellifera scutellata) and western European (A. m. mellifera) and eastern European (A. m. caucasica, A. m. carnica, and A. m. ligustica) subspecies are widely distributed in urban areas of the southwestern USA. However, little is known about their distribution in rural regions. We collected bees at 54 sites in a <tex-math>$5,350\text{-km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area in the Sonoran Desert of southwestern Arizona. We used mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) analysis of individual worker honeybees (10 per site) to assess genetics of colonies within the study area. Among collected bees, 86.9% possessed African mtDNA. Western European, eastern European, and Egyptian (A. m. lamarckii) mtDNA was present in 5.6%, 4.1%, and 3.4% of collected bees, respectively. There was no apparent relationship between the percentage of bees having African mtDNA and distance to agricultural fields or elevation of the collection site. The preponderance of Africanized honeybees confirms previous studies and predictions concerning their distribution in the southwestern USA. /// Las abejas africanizadas, hbridas entre subespecies de la africana (Apis mellifera scutellata), y la europea occidental (A. m. mellifera) y la europea oriental (A. m. caucasica, A. m. carnica y A. m. ligustica), estn ampliamente distribuidas en reas urbanas del sudoeste de USA. Sin embargo, poco se conoce de su distribucin en regiones rurales. Recolectamos abejas en 54 sitios en un rea de estudio de <tex-math>$5350\ \text{km}^{2}$</tex-math> en el Desierto Sonorense del sudoeste de Arizona. Empleamos anlisis de ADN mitocondrial (ADNmt) de individuos de abejas obreras (10 por sitio) para determinar la gentica de colonias dentro del rea de estudio. Entre las abejas recolectadas, 86.9% poseyeron ADNmt africano. ADNmt europeo occidental, europeo oriental y egipcio (A. m. lamarckii) estuvo presente en 5.6%, 4.1%, y 3.4% de las abejas recolectadas, respectivamente. No hubo relacin aparente entre el porcentaje de abejas con ADNmt africano y la distancia a campos agrcolas o la elevacin del sitio de recoleccin. La preponderancia de abejas africanizadas confirma previos estudios y las predicciones concernientes a su distribucin en el sudoeste de USA.
3672474|A new species of Gyrodactylus (Monogenoidea, Gyrodactylidae) is described from the skin of the White Sands pupfish, Cyprinodon tularosa Miller and Echelle, 1975 (Cyprinodontiformes, Cyprinodontidae) from Salt Creek, White Sands Missile Range, Tularosa Basin, New Mexico. The new species is compared with the 6 species of Gyrodactylidae known to parasitize pupfish in the southern United States. /// Una nueva especie de Gyrodactylus (Monogenoidea, Gyrodactylidae) se describe de la piel del pez cachorrito, Cyprinodon tularosa Miller and Echelle, 1975 (Cyprinodontiformes, Cyprinodontidae) de Salt Creek, White Sands Missile Range, Tularosa Basin, New Mexico. La nueva especie se compara con seis especies de Gyrodactylidae que parasitan al pez cachorrito al sur de los Estados Unidos.
3672475|Laguna de Sayula, a seasonal freshwater wetland in Jalisco, western Mexico, supports many resident and migratory bird species, particularly during the dry season (October to May). We documented changes in habitat condition (i.e., water vs. mudflat vs. land cover) and occurrences of 12 waterbird species during the dry season. From October to February, much of the lagoon was covered with water and mudflats, and the avifauna was dominated by resident killdeer (Charadrius vociferus) and migratory long-billed curlew (Numenius americanus). Between March and May, there was significantly less area covered by water and mudflats, and killdeer and the migratory spotted sandpiper (Actitis macularia) were most common. Species tended to co-occur in plots, often in large numbers, suggesting that they were tracking patchy resources within the study area. /// La Laguna de Sayula, una cuenca endorreica estacional ubicada en Jalisco, en el occidente de Mxico apoya muchas especies de aves residentes y migratorias, particularmente durante la estacin seca (octubre a mayo) Documentamos los cambios en las condiciones del hbitat (i.e., agua vs. lodazal vs. cobertura del suelo) y la presencia de 12 especies de aves acuticas durante la estacin seca. De octubre a febrero, en su mayora la laguna estuvo cubierta por zonas acuticas y lodosas, y las aves dominantes fueron el chorlito tildo (Charadrius vociferus; residente) y el zarapito piquilargo (Numenius americanus; migratorio). Entre marzo y mayo, se present una cobertura de agua y lodo significativamente menor, y el chorlito tildo y el playero alzacolita (Actitis macularia; migratorio) fueron los ms comunes. Varias especies ocurrieron en los mismos sitios, frecuentemente en grandes cantidades, lo cual sugiere que seguan los parches de recursos dentro del rea de estudio.
3672476|We studied home range, habitat use, and vital rates of radio-marked Mexican spotted owls (Strix occidentalis lucida) in 2 study areas in the Sacramento Mountains, New Mexico. One study area (mesic) was dominated by mixed-conifer forest, the other (xeric) by ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forest and pion (P. edulis)-juniper (Juniperus) woodland. Based on existing knowledge of relative use of forest types by Mexican spotted owls, we predicted that the mesic area would provide habitat of higher quality for spotted owls. Results generally supported this prediction. Median home-range size for owls in the mesic area was approximately half that of owls in the xeric area during both the breeding and non-breeding seasons (n = 6 owls in each area). Despite their reduced size, however, mesic-area home ranges contained twice as much mixed-conifer forest as xeric-area ranges. Owls roosted primarily (>80% of roosting locations in both seasons) in mixed-conifer forest in both study areas, and home-range size was inversely related to relative amount of mixed-conifer forest within the home range during both seasons. Both survival and fecundity rates were higher in the mesic than in the xeric area. Estimates of population trend based on observed vital rates suggested that the population in the mesic area was self-sustaining or nearly so during the period of study (1992 through 1994), but the population in the xeric area was not. Collectively, our findings suggest that habitat quality for spotted owls was higher in the mesic area than in the xeric area, and that the xeric area might function as an ecological sink. These results support the need for data linking demographic performance to habitat conditions in development of strategies for recovering threatened and endangered species. /// Estudiamos el rango de hogar, uso de hbitat, y las tasas vitales de los tecolotes manchados mexicanos (Strix occidentalis lucida) en 2 reas de estudio en las Sacramento Mountains de New Mexico, USA. Un rea de estudio (msica) estuvo dominada por bosques de conferas mixtas, la otra (xrica) por bosques de pino ponderosa (Pinus ponderosa) y bosques leosos de pino pionera (P. edulis) y enebros (Juniperus). Basados en el conocimiento existente del uso relativo de tipos de bosques por el tecolote manchado mexicano, predecimos que el rea msica proveera un hbitat de la ms alta calidad para los tecolotes. Los resultados en general respaldan esta prediccin. El tamao medio del rango de hogar para los tecolotes en el rea msica fue aproximadamente la mitad de el de los tecolotes en el rea xrica durante y fuera de la temporada de reproduccin (n = 6 tecolotes en cada rea). A pesar de sus tamaos reducidos, sin embargo, los rangos de hogar msicos contuvieron el doble de bosques de conferas mixtas que los rangos de hogar xricos. Los tecolotes pasaron la noche (>80% de los lugares de descanso en ambas temporadas) principalmente en bosques de conferas mixtas en ambas reas de estudio, y el tamao del rango de hogar estuvo inversamente relacionado a la cantidad relativa de bosques de conferas mixtas dentro del rango de hogar durante ambas temporadas. Las tasas de supervivencia y fecundidad fueron ms altas en el rea msica que en la xrica. Estimaciones de las tendencias poblacionales basadas en observaciones de tasas vitales sugieren que la poblacin en el rea msica se sostuvo sola o casi se sostuvo durante el perodo de estudio (1992 a 1994), pero la poblacin en el rea xrica no. Colectivamente, nuestros hallazgos sugieren que la calidad del hbitat para los tecolotes manchados fue ms alta en el rea msica que en la xrica, y que el rea xrica puede operar como un sumidero ecolgico. Estos resultados respaldan la necesidad de considerar juntos los datos de rendimiento demogrfic y los de condiciones de hbitat en desarrollar estrategias para la recuperacin de especies amenazadas y en peligro de extincin.
3672477|Geomys texensis, the Llano pocket gopher, consists of 3 subspecies, all identified using classical morphological methods. Enzymatic studies have found little support for the existence of one of these subspecies (G. t. llanensis); however, it continues to be recognized regularly today. To clarify the subspecific status of members within this species, we have sequenced the entire 1,140 base pairs of the cytochrome b gene for 25 individuals collected from throughout the range of the species. Our data refute the designation of 1 of the 3 currently recognized subspecies and allude to the existence of a new, as yet unnamed subspecies. /// La tuza del llano, Geomys texensis, incluye 3 subespecies, todas identificadas usando mtodos morfolgicos clsicos. Estudios enzimticos han encontrado poco apoyo para la existencia de una de estas subespecies (G. t. llanensis), sin embargo, sta continua siendo regularmente reconocida hasta hoy. Para clarificar el estado subespecfico de los miembros de esta especie, hemos secuenciado todas las 1140 bases del citocromo b de 27 individuos colectados a lo largo de todo el rango de la especie. Nuestros datos rechazan la designacin de una de las tres subespecies actualmente reconocidas y sealan la existencia de una nueva subespecie aun no descrita.
3672478|Nucleotide sequences from intron 7 of the beta-fibrinogen gene (Fgb-17) were used to evaluate phylogenetic relationships among members of the genus Sigmodon. In addition, these sequences were combined with mitochondrial cytochrome-b sequences and analyzed from a total evidence perspective. Results from parsimony and Bayesian analyses indicated support for 3 species groups (alstoni, fulviventer, and hispidus). A sister relationship was depicted for S. alleni and S. hirsutus, followed by the addition of S. toltecus; however, little resolution was provided for relationships between other members of the hispidus species group. /// Secuencias nucletidas del intrn 7 del gene beta-fibrinogen (Fgb-17) fueron usadas para evaluar las relaciones filogenticas entre los miembros del gnero Sigmodon. Adems, estas secuencias fueron combinadas con secuencias del cytochrome-b mitocondrial y analizadas desde una perspectiva de evidencia total. Resultados de los anlisis de parsimonia y de Bayes indicaron apoyo para 3 grupos de especies (alstoni, fulviventer y hispidus). S. alleni y S. hirsutus resultaron hermanas, y a este grupo se le aade S. toltecus, sin embargo, poca resolucin fue obtenida entre otros miembros del grupo de especies de hispidus.
3672479|Seventy-six American mink (Mustela vison) from 8 localities were genotyped using 4 polymorphic microsatellite loci. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that genetic structure was partitioned within streams due to the close association of mink with riparian habitats. Six of the localities were streams in Lonoke County in central Arkansas, one was in Independence County, 143 km from Lonoke County, Arkansas, and one was in Tipton County, Tennessee (204 km away from the populations in Lonoke County). F<sub>ST</sub> values indicated that the Tipton County site was genetically distinct from those from Arkansas. However, most F<sub>ST</sub> values among the 7 localities in Arkansas (6 in Lonoke County and one in Independence County) indicated little genetic difference among these sites. There was no statistically significant relationship between genetic and geographic distances. The straight-line distance between sites was positively correlated with genetic distances based on F<sub>ST</sub>, while riverine distances were negatively correlated with genetic distances, indicating that straight-line distance was a better predictor of genetic structure in mink, perhaps due to overland movements among streams. Genetic structure was not partitioned within streams because there was substantial gene flow among streams. /// Setenta y seis visones americanos (Mustela vison) de ocho localidades fueron analizados usando cuatro loci microsatlite polimrficos. Este estudio fue diseado para probar la hiptesis de que la estructura gentica fue dividida dentro de los riachuelos debido a la asociacin cercana del visin con los hbitats ribereos. Seis de los lugares fueron riachuelos en el condado de Lonoke en el centro de Arkansas, uno estuvo en el condado de Independencia, 143 kilmetros del condado de Lonoke, Arkansas, y uno estuvo en el condado de Tipton, Tennessee (204 kilmetros de las poblaciones en el condado de Lonoke). Los valores F<sub>ST</sub> indicaron que el sitio en el condado de Tipton fue genticamente distinto de los de Arkansas. Sin embargo, la mayora de los valores de F<sub>ST</sub> entre las siete localidades en Arkansas (seis en el condado de Lonoke y una en el condado de Independencia) indicaron pocas diferencias genticas entre estos sitios. No hubo una relacin estadsticamente significativa entre distancias genticas y geogrficas. La distancia de la lnea recta entre los sitios tuvo una correlacin positiva con distancias genticas basadas en F<sub>ST</sub>, mientras que las distancias ribereas estuvieron relacionadas negativamente con distancias geneticas, indicando que la distancia de la lnea recta fue el mejor pronosticador de la estructura gentica del visn, quizs debido a los movimientos sobre la tierra entre riachuelos. La estructura gentica no fue dividida entre riachuelos porque hubo un flujo gentico substancial entre riachuelos.
3672480|Previous descriptions of growth, development, and composition of deer antlers have not included factors that affect antler breakage. We related morphology and mineral concentration to occurrence of broken antler tines in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) using 126 cast antlers collected during 1989 to 1995. Antlers were divided into 2 categories: broken and intact. Density, break strength, spongy bone percentage, and mineral composition were measured for 1-cm cross-sections removed from the base of the main beam, from between the G2 and G3 tines, and from the base of the G3 tine. We compared these variables between broken and intact antlers and estimated correlations between tine density, break strength, spongy bone ratio, and mineral composition. Density, percentage of spongy bone, break strength, and mineral concentration did not differ significantly between broken and intact antlers. Main beam break strength differed significantly among years. Mineral composition differed significantly among antler locations and year. Rainfall during the antler growth period was correlated with concentrations of aluminum and manganese. Although there were significant correlations between morphology and mineral concentrations, morphology and mineral composition did not explain the presence of broken antlers. /// Descripciones previas del crecimiento, desarrollo y composicin de los cuernos de venados no han incluido factores que afecten el rompimiento de los cuernos. Relacionamos morfologa y concentracin de minerales con la ocurrencia de puntas rotas de cuernos de venados de cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus) usando 126 mudas colectadas durante 1989-1995. Los cuernos fueron divididos en 2 categoras: rotos e intactos. La densidad, resistencia al rompimiento, porcentaje de hueso esponjoso, y composicin mineral fueron medidas en cortes transversales de 1-cm tomados de la base de los cuernos, de entre las puntas G2 y G3, y de la base de la punta G3. Comparamos las variables antes mencionadas entre cuernos rotos e intactos y estimamos la correlacin entre la densidad de la punta, resistencia al rompimiento, proporcin de hueso esponjoso, y composicin mineral. No hubo diferencia significativa entre densidad, porcentaje de hueso esponjoso, resistencia al rompimiento, y concentracin de minerales entre cuernos rotos e intactos. La resistencia al rompimiento de la base de los cuernos difiri significativamente entre aos. La composicin mineral de los cuernos difiri significativamente entre los segmentos muestreados y aos. La lluvia durante el periodo de crecimiento de los cuernos fue correlacionada con concentraciones de aluminio y de manganeso. Aunque hubo correlaciones significativas entre morfologa y concentraciones minerales, la morfologa y la composicin mineral no explicaron la presencia de cuernos rotos.
3672481|We discovered a mandible of the flat-headed peccary (Platygonus compressus) in a sand and gravel borrow pit (Pit Stop Quarry) between Taylor and Show Low, Navajo County, Arizona. We also found isolated skeletal elements of a mole salamander (Ambystomatidae), pygmy rabbit (Brachylagus idahoensis), sagebrush vole (Lemmiscus curtatus), and several other small mammals in sediments immediately surrounding the peccary jaw. The presence of P. compressus indicates that the deposit is of late Pleistocene age. Specimens also represent the first Pleistocene record of Ambystomatidae on the Colorado Plateau, an important additional record of P. compressus on the Colorado Plateau, and 1 of 2 records of B. idahoensis in Arizona. /// Descubrimos una mandbula de la javelina Platygonus compressus en una cantera de arena y grava (Pit Stop Quarry) entre Taylor y Show Low, condado de Navajo en Arizona. Encontramos tambin elementos esquelticos aislados de una salamandra (Ambystomatidae), del conejo pigmeo (Brachylagus idahoensis), del campaol (Lemmiscus curtatus), y varios otros mamferos pequeos en sedimentos alrededor de la mandbula de la javelina. La presencia de P. compressus indica que el depsito es del Pleistoceno tardo. Los especimenes tambin representan el primer registro del Pleistoceno de Ambystomatidae en el Colorado Plateau, un importante registro adicional de P. compressus en el Colorado Plateau, y 1 de 2 registros de B. idahoensis en Arizona.
3672482|Some characteristics of germination and seedling establishment of Stenocereus stellatus, a columnar cactus that has vegetative propagation and sexual reproduction, were determined through field and laboratory experiments with seeds collected at 2 sites. Germination and seedling establishment varied between sites. Seedling survivorship also was affected by solar radiation. Different intrinsic and extrinsic characteristics, such as genetic variation, seed predation, and rainfall, could affect the successful establishment of this species. Vegetative propagation might be a complementary mechanism to sexual reproduction that contributes to population persistence. /// Algunas caractersticas de la germinacin y el establecimiento de plntulas de Stenocereus stellatus, un cactus columnar con propagacin vegetativa y reproduccin sexual, fueron determinadas a travs de experimentos de campo y laboratorio con semillas colectadas en 2 sitios. La germinacin y el establecimiento de plntulas variaron entre sitios. La sobrevivencia de las plntulas tambin fue afectada por la radiacin solar. Diferentes caractersticas intrnsecas y extrnsecas como la variacin gentica, la depredacin de las semillas y la lluvia pueden afectar el establecimiento exitoso de esta especie. La propagacin vegetativa puede ser un mecanismo complementario a la reproduccin sexual que contribuya al mantenimiento de la poblacin.
3672483|Ipomoea pes-caprae (L.) Roth (railroad vine, Convolvulaceae) is a pantropical, perennial beach plant that forms large patches just above the high tide line on coastal beaches and dunes throughout tropical and subtropical areas of the world. In spite of its wide distribution, only rare occurrences of I. pes-caprae have been documented in inland habitats. Here we report on an extensive population of I. pes-caprae growing on the shores of Lake Nicaragua in the interior of Nicaragua. /// Ipomoea pes-caprae (L.) Roth (la rionina, Convolvulaceae) es una planta perenne y pantropical que forma parches grandes arriba de la lnea de la marea alta en playas costeras y en dunas en reas tropicales y subtropicales del mundo. A pesar de su amplia distribucin, I. pescaprae ha sido documentado rara vez en hbitats tierra adentro. Aqu informamos de una poblacin extensa de I. pes-caprae habitando la orilla del Lago Nicaragua en el interior de Nicaragua.
3672484|We monitored a population of pickerel frogs (Rana palustris) in an Ozark cave over a 2-year period. Frogs were found from August to April with densities peaking from November to December. Although densities were quite high in these peak months, stomach content and stable isotope analyses reveal that R. palustris does not play a significant role as a predator in this subterranean system. These results suggest that the caves are being used as thermal refugia during the coldest months of the year. /// Observamos durante un periodo de dos aos una poblacin de Rana palustris en una cueva en los Ozarks. Se detectaron ranas de agosto y abril con densidades picos en noviembre y diciembre. Aunque las densidades fueron muy altas en estos dos meses, los contenidos estomacales y anlisis de istopos estables revelan que R. palustris no juega un papel significativo como depredador en este sistema subterrneo. Estos resultados sugieren que las cuevas son usadas como refugios trmicos durante los meses ms fros del ao.
3672485|We describe the diet of the thornscrub hook-nosed snake (Gyalopion quadrangulare) using prey remains removed from the alimentary tracts of museum specimens. Diet consisted of small arthropods, including 9 (31%) insects, 9 (31%) spiders, 8 (28%) scorpions, and 3 (10%) that could not be identified further. Insects included 7 orthopterans (both crickets and grasshoppers) and 2 that we could not identify further. We identified half of the scorpions as Diplocentrus spitzeri. Prey class frequencies are dependent on geographic distribution, but independent of sample source (stomach vs. intestine/feces). Snakes that ate different prey classes did not differ significantly in snout-vent length. /// Describimos la dieta de la culebra de naricilla del desierto (Gyalopion cuadrangulare) usando restos de presas extrados de tractos digestivos de especimenes en museos. La dieta consiste de pequeos artrpodos incluyendo 9 (31%) insectos, 9 (31%) araas, 8 (28%) escorpiones, y 3 (10%) que no pudieron ser identificados. Los insectos incluyeron 7 ortpteros (grillos y saltamontes) y 2 que no pudieron ser identificados. Identificamos la mitad de los escorpiones como Diplocentrus spitzeri. Las frecuencias de clase de presa son dependientes de la distribucin geogrfica, pero independientes de la fuente de muestreo (estmago vs. intestino/heces). Las serpientes que consumieron diferentes clases de presas no difirieron significativamente en la longitud hocico-cloaca.
3672486|We examined large series of the plains pocket gopher (Geomys bursarius) and Baird's pocket gopher (G. breviceps) collected in every month of the year in 10 Texas counties. Based on lengths of testes, both species potentially reproduce in every month of the year, although the likelihood of reproduction decreases in summer and autumn. Data from females revealed that breeding actually begins in late December or early January and continues through October (in Baird's pocket gopher) or November (in the plains pocket gopher). /// Examinamos una amplia serie de la tuza de pradera (Geomys bursarius) y de la tuza de Baird (Geomys breviceps), colectadas cada mes del ao en diez condados de Texas. Basado en la longitud de los testculos, ambas especies potencialmente se reproducen cada mes del ao aunque la probabilidad de reproduccin disminuye en el verano y el otoo. Datos de las hembras revelaron que el apareamiento comienza a fines de diciembre o a los inicios de enero, y contina a lo largo de octubre (en el caso de la tuza de Baird) o a travs de noviembre (en el caso de la tuza de pradera).
3672487|Hispid cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus) occur primarily in grass-dominated habitats. These habitats abut tidal wetlands along the Gulf and Atlantic coasts of the United States occupied by the marsh rice rat (Oryzomys palustris). Few data document whether cotton rats also occupy wetlands and whether interspecific interactions exist with rice rats. We used livetraps to sample 4 grids that each encompassed wetland and upland habitats near Galveston, Texas. Cotton rats occurred in both upland and wetland habitats. Density of cotton rats was lower in wetlands; their residence time was less in wetlands, which perhaps indicated poorer survival or movement to uplands. Sex ratio, proportion reproductive, and age structure, however, did not differ between upland and wetland habitats. Density of cotton rats and rice rats was negatively correlated. Such density compensation coupled with differences in diel activity and diet minimizes potential for interspecific competition. /// La rata algodonera crespa (Sigmodon hispidus) se encuentra mayormente en hbitat dominada por hierba. Estos hbitats terminan en pantanos afectados por marea a lo largo de las costas del Golfo y del Atlntico de los Estados Unidos. Los pantanos estn ocupados por la rata arrocera de pantano (Oryzomys palustris). Pocos datos documentan si las ratas algodoneras tambin habitan pantanos y si existen interacciones interespecficas con ratas-arroceras. Utilizamos trampas para obtener muestras de 4 cuadrculas que incluyeron hbitats pantanosas y de tierra alta cerca de Galveston, Texas. Las ratas algodoneras habitaban tanto reas de tierra alta como reas pantanosas. La densidad de las ratas algodoneras en reas pantanosas fue ms baja; su tiempo de residencia en reas pantanosas fue menor, lo que quiz indica menor sobrevivencia o traslado a tierra alta. La proporcin de los sexos, la proporcin reproductiva, y la estructura de edad, sin embargo, no difirieron en hbitats de reas pantanosas y de tierra alta. La densidad de la rata algodonera y la rata arrocera de pantano se correlacionaron negativamente. Tal compensacin de densidad junto con diferencias en actividad en perodos de veinticuatro horas y dieta minimiza la posibilidad de competencia entre especies.
3672488|We report the first documented use of a building as a winter roost by Euderma maculatum. We suggest that sufficient numbers of E. maculatum have been encountered in urban settings that researchers should consider these areas during the course of investigations of species occurrence. We recommend that urban settings in the vicinity of large cliff features be sampled systematically for the presence of E. maculatum. /// Reportamos el primer caso documentado del uso de edificios como refugio de invierno por Euderma maculatum. Sugerimos que han sido encontrados suficentes individuos de E. maculatum en asentamientos urbanos por lo que los investigadores deben considerar stas reas para los estudios enfocados a la presencia de especies. Recomendamos que los asentamientos urbanos cercanos a grandes acantilados deben ser muestreados para la presencia de E. maculatum.
3672290|Mate choice tests provided no evidence of prezygotic reproductive isolation between a population of Physa virgata (Gould, 1855) collected from its type locality in the Gila River of Arizona and Physa acuta (Draparnaud, 1805) from a control site in Charleston, South Carolina. Reared in a no-choice experimental design, 10 outcross Arizona  South Carolina pairs initiated reproduction at approximately the same age as Arizona  Arizona controls, and earlier than South Carolina  South Carolina controls. Parents in the outcross experiment did not differ significantly from either control in their median weekly fecundity across 10 weeks of observation, yielding an F<sub>1</sub> generation with significantly improved viability. We detected no evidence of reduction in F<sub>1</sub> fertility. Thus, P. virgata, the most widespread freshwater gastropod of the American Southwest, should be considered a junior synonym of the cosmopolitan P. acuta. /// Pruebas de la eleccin de pareja no proveyeron ninguna evidencia de aislamiento reproductivo precigtico entre una poblacin de Physa virgata (Gould, 1855) colectada en su tierra tpica del Ro Gila de Arizona y Physa acuta (Draparnaud, 1805) de un lugar control en Charleston, South Carolina. Cultivados en un diseo experimental de "no-eleccin," 10 parejas exogamticas de Arizona  South Carolina iniciaron reproduccin a aproximadamente la misma edad que los controles de Arizona  Arizona y antes que los controles de South Carolina  South Carolina. A travs de 10 semanas de observaciones, los padres del experimento exogamtico no se diferenciaron significativamente de cualquier control en la mediana de la fecundidad semanal, produciendo una generacin F<sub>1</sub> con viabilidad significativamente mejorada. No detectamos ninguna evidencia de la reduccin en la fertilidad F<sub>1</sub>. Como resultado P. virgata, el gastrpodo de agua dulce ms extendido en el suroeste de Amrica del Norte, se debe considerar como el sinnimo menor de la cosmopolita P. acuta.
3672291|Spawning season of the white sucker (Catostomus commersoni) in tributaries of Lake Taneycomo, a coldwater reservoir of the White River system in southwestern Missouri, lasted from early April to late May in 1994 and 1995. Collection of fish larvae and spawning activities of adult white sucker indicated that spawning occurred in all tributaries of the lake. We did not observe evidence of spawning in the lake. White suckers began to mature at age 3 and a total length of 275 mm. A larger proportion of males matured at an earlier age and length, but females lived longer and reached larger sizes. Mortality rates were higher for mature males than females. Both sexes exhibited high mortality after age 8. Females were more abundant than males (1.94 to 6.50:1 F:M) in the upper lake throughout the year, while males were more abundant in Bull Creek (0.27 to 0.30:1 F:M), a major tributary, during the spawning season. Fecundity increased with fish size, ranging from approximately 5,000 to 59,000 eggs. Growth of white sucker continued throughout life, but slowed dramatically after maturation. Although this southern population in the Lake Taneycomo system spawned earlier than reported for most northern populations, its demographic attributes (age and length at maturity, fecundity, gonadosomatic index, fecundity, condition, and growth rates) were within ranges reported for other white sucker populations. /// La temporada de desove del matalote (Catostomus commersoni) en aguas tributarias del Lago Taneycomo, un embalse de agua fra del sistema del White River en el suroeste de Missouri, dur desde principios de abril a fines de mayo en 1994 y 1995. La recolecta de larvas y las actividades reproductivas del matalote adulto indicaron que el desove ocurri en todas las tributarias del lago. No observamos evidencia del desove en el lago. Los matalotes comenzaron a madurar a los 3 aos y con una longitud total de 275 mm. Una proporcin mayor de machos madur a una edad ms joven y con una longitud menor, pero las hembras vivieron ms tiempo y alcanzaron un tamao mayor. La tasa de mortandad de los machos adultos fue mayor que la de las hembras adultas. Ambos sexos mostraron una tasa de mortandad ms alta luego de cumplir 8 aos. Las hembras fueron ms abundantes que los machos (1.94 a 6.50:1 H:M) en la parte superior del lago a travs del ao, mientras que los machos fueron ms abundantes en Bull Creek (0.27 a 0.30:1 H:M), una tributaria mayor, durante la temporada de desove. La fecundidad increment con el tamao del pez, variando entre aproximadamente 5,000 a 59,000 huevos. El crecimiento del matalote continu a travs de su vida, pero aminor dramticamente luego de su maduracin. A pesar de que esta poblacin en el Lago Taneycomo desov ms temprano que lo reportado en la mayora de las poblaciones en el norte, sus atributos demogrficos (edad y longitud al madurar, fecundidad, ndice gonadosomtica, condicin, y tasas de crecimiento) estuvieron dentro de los parmetros reportados de otras poblaciones de matalotes.
3672292|Hemidactylus turcicus is a small gekkonid lizard native to the Middle East and Asia that is known to exhibit sexual dimorphism in head size. Several potential explanations exist for the evolution and maintenance of sexual dimorphism in lizards. We tested 2 of these competing hypotheses concerning diet partitioning and differential growth. We found no differences in average meal size (volume) or in any single dimension of prey size for similarly sized males and females. Allometric patterns of increases in head size also were measured in males and females. We found that males exhibited a mixture of isometric and positively allometric patterns of head size increase, whereas females exhibited isometric and negatively allometric patterns. Thus, we concluded that sexual dimorphism in head size is not the result of diet partitioning but instead of differential growth patterns following sexual maturity in males and females. /// Hemidactylus turcicus es una pequea lagartija nativa del Medio Oriente y Asia que exhibe dimorfismo sexual en el tamao de la cabeza. Varias posibles explicaciones existen para la evolucin y el mantenimiento de dimorfismo sexual en lagartijas. Probamos dos de estas hiptesis contrarias referentes a fragmentacin de dieta y crecimiento diferenciado. No encontramos ninguna diferencia en el tamao medio del alimento (volumen) o en ninguna nica dimensin del tamao de la presa para machos y hembras de tamaos semejantes. Patrones alomtricos de aumento del tamao de la cabeza fueron medidos en machos y hembras. Encontramos que los machos exhibieron una mezcla de patrones isomtricos y positivamente alomtricos de aumento del tamao de la cabeza, mientras que las hembras exhibieron patrones isomtricos y negativamente alomtricos. Concluimos que el dimorfismo sexual en el tamao de la cabeza no es el resultado de la fragmentacin de la dieta sino de patrones diferenciales de crecimiento despus de la madurez sexual de machos y hembras.
3672293|Land-bird density on Espritu Santo Island, lower Gulf of California, Mexico, was determined bimonthly from November 1998 to October 1999. Bird density was quantified in 4 habitats on the island using the line transect sampling method. Fifty-eight species were recorded, of which 44 were detected in the transects and the other 14 in adjacent sites. The highest bird densities were observed in March and June, coincident with the lowest rainfall months in the neighboring peninsular mainland. Average density (birds/ha) was highest in alluvial fans (18.14) and lowest in mesas (8.08). Migratory bird density on the island was relatively low and commonly less than 10% of the observed total density. The average land-bird density on the island (13.29/ha) was greater than that previously recorded. /// Determinamos la densidad de aves terrestres en la Isla Espritu Santo, Baja California Sur, Mxico, bimensualmente de noviembre de 1998 a octubre 1999. La densidad de las aves se cuantific en cuatro hbitats en la isla mediante transectos lineales. Observamos 58 especies de aves, de las cuales 44 fueron vistas a lo largo de los transectos y 14 en sitios adyacentes. La densidad ms alta se observ entre marzo y junio, lo que coincide con la poca de mayor estiaje en las tierras peninsulares adyacentes. La densidad promedio (aves/ha) por hbitat fue ms elevada en los aluviones (18.14) y menor en las mesetas (8.08). La densidad de las aves migratorias fue relativamente baja, y comnmente menor del 10% de la densidad total observada. El promedio de la densidad de aves terrestres en la isla (13.29/ha) fue mayor que lo registrado previamente.
3672294|We studied habitat preferences of northern harriers (Circus cyaneus) in 4 counties of the Southern High Plains of northwestern Texas from October 1989 to May 1995. Harriers generally arrived in late July and departed in April. They hunted over a variety of habitats in the study area but mainly in Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) grasslands and vegetated playa basins. CRP grasslands, playa basins, and shortgrass prairie were used disproportionately to their availability, whereas winter wheat was used less than its availability. Brown harriers (adult females or subadults of either sex) foraged in CRP about as often as adult males but more frequently in playas and prairies, whereas adult males foraged more in winter wheat. As underground water sources for irrigation continue to be depleted, agricultural practices are likely to change. Depending on how the land is used after irrigation ceases, harriers might benefit if CRP grasslands, vegetated playas, and shortgrass prairies persist. If dominant land use reverts to livestock grazing, however, the harrier population will be negatively affected. /// Estudiamos las preferencias de hbitat del gaviln norteo (Circus cyaneus) en cuatro condados de las praderas altas sureas del noroeste de Texas desde octubre 1989 hasta mayo 1995. El gaviln norteo generalmente llega a fines de julio y se va en abril. Cazaron en una variedad de hbitats en la rea de estudio pero principalmente en los pastizales del Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) y en las cuencas vegetadas de los lagos playas. Pastizales de CRP, cuencas de los lagos playa y praderas de pasto corto fueron usados desproporcionadamente a su disponibilidad, mientras que el trigal invernal fue usado menos que su disponibilidad. El gaviln norteo de coloracin caf (hembras adultas o subadultos de ambos sexos) forrajearon en CRP tan seguido como los machos adultos pero ms frecuentemente en lagos playa y praderas, mientras que los machos adultos forrajearon ms en trigales invernales. As como el agua del subsuelo usada para irrigacin contina siendo mermada, las prcticas agrcolas tendrn que cambiar. Dependiendo de cmo es usada la tierra despus de que la irrigacin cese, los gavilanes norteos se pueden beneficiar si los pastizales de CRP, los lagos playa vegetados, y las praderas de pasto corto persisten. Por otro lado, si el uso de la tierra dominante se convierte a forrajeo de ganado, la poblacin del gaviln norteo ser afectada negativamente.
3672295|Morphological observations of male genital tracts obtained from wild, adult Mexican big-eared bats (Corynorhinus mexicanus) revealed only one but long annual reproductive cycle showing the existence of temporal asynchrony of its reproductive functions, as is characteristic of temperate-zone vespertilionid and rhinolophid chiropterans. Testes were largest in August, whereas maximum development of epididymides and accessory sex glands complex was observed 1 and 3 months later. High value of relative body condition of individuals was observed from May to June, when testicular enlargement commenced, suggesting that recrudescence of spermatogenesis in the adult bats is dependent on a good body condition. /// Observaciones morfolgicas del tracto genital masculino de murcilagos de orejas largas mexicanos adultos silvestres (Corynorhinus mexicanus) revelaron un nico pero largo ciclo reproductivo mostrando la existencia de una asincrona temporal de sus funciones reproductivas como es caracterstico de los quirpteros vespertilinidos y rhinolfidos de zonas templadas. El mximo tamao de los testculos se dio en agosto, mientras que el mximo desarrollo de los epiddimos y del complejo de glndulas sexuales accesorias fue observado 1 y 3 meses despus. El valor elevado en la condicin corporal relativa de los individuos fue observado de mayo a junio cuando comenz el agrandamiento testicular lo que sugiere que el reinicio de la espermatognesis en los murcilagos adultos depende de una condicin corporal adecuada.
3672296|Abert's squirrels (Sciurus aberti) are reported to be dependent on ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests for food, cover, and nest sites. Introduced Abert's squirrels in the Pinaleo Mountains of Arizona, however, occupy forests that contain little to no ponderosa pine. We documented diet and tree use of Abert's squirrels in mixed-conifer forests of the Pinaleo Mountains using observations of marked animals. Individuals ate similar food items as Abert's squirrels in ponderosa pine forests, including seeds, inner bark, buds, and fungi, but 5 conifer species were used as food sources. Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) and southwestern white pine (Pinus strobiformis) were the most frequently eaten conifer species. Abert's squirrels also were observed in all tree species. Our results suggest that the dependence of Abert's squirrels on ponderosa pine is not as strong as previously reported. /// Se registra que las ardillas arbreas de Abert (Sciurus aberti) son dependientes de los bosques del pino ponderosa (Pinus ponderosa) para comida, cobijo, y sitios para anidar. Las ardillas arbreas de Abert que fueron introducidas en las Montaas Pinaleos de Arizona, sin embargo, ocupan bosques que contienen poco a ningn pino ponderosa. Documentamos la dieta y el uso de los rboles de las ardillas arbreas Abert en bosques de conferas mixtas de las Montaas Pinaleos observando animales marcados. Los individuos ingirieron comida similar que las ardillas de Abert viviendo en los bosques de pino ponderosa, incluyendo semillas, corteza interior, retoos, y hongos, pero cinco especies de conferas fueron usadas como fuentes de alimento. Abeto de Douglas (Pseudotsuga menziesii) y pino blanco (Pinus strobiformis) fueron las especies de conferas ms ingeridas. Tambin se observaron las ardillas arbreas de Abert en todas las especies de rboles. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la dependencia de las ardillas arbreas de Abert al pino ponderosa no es tan fuerte como se registr antes.
3672297|We examined scavenging on mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) carcasses by puma (Puma concolor) in the Peninsular Ranges of San Diego County, California. Between January 2001 and October 2003, we placed 44 deer carcasses at 23 sites and used them to examine scavenging events. We also documented 2 additional deer carcasses, not placed as bait, that were scavenged by puma. Eight to 12 puma (6 males, 2 to 5 females, and 1 of unknown sex) scavenged 20 of 46 deer carcasses (43.5%) at 12 of the 25 sites. Six puma (4 males, 2 females) were captured 7 times at scavenging sites. We identified 7 scavenging puma (5 males, 2 females) through captures and telemetry, and 1 unmarked, scavenging male from a camera trap. The 7 telemetered puma that scavenged ranged in age from 11 months to 9 years, and each individual scavenged on 1 to 6 deer (mean = 2.3). Deer carcasses were found and scavenged by puma from 1 to 14 days (mean = 5 days) after deposition, when carcass conditions ranged from frozen and fresh to rotting and maggot-infested. Puma treated scavenged carcasses as they would their own kills, dragging carcasses to preferred sites, caching, depositing scats, and making scrapes in the area. However, puma did not always attempt to cache tethered carcasses. During fieldwork, we also discovered that 1 telemetered puma repeatedly visited a domestic livestock graveyard and scavenged on surface-discarded horse and cattle carcasses. Puma are known to be opportunistic predators, but our results indicate that they are opportunistic scavengers as well. Due to the propensity of puma to scavenge, it is likely that some perceived kills might be scavenging events. Frequent monitoring and timely field investigation of mortality signals detected from telemetered prey species will help investigators identify those events. Scavenging behavior should be considered when evaluating or predicting the effects of puma predation on prey species. /// Examinamos el uso de carroa de venado bura (Odocoileus hemionus) por el puma (Puma concolor) en las Sierras Peninsulares del condado de San Diego de California. Entre enero del 2001 y octubre del 2003, colocamos 44 cadveres de venado en 23 sitios y se usaron para describir eventos de utilizacin de carroa. Adicionalmente se document el uso de 2 cadveres de venado, no colocados como carnada, que fueron usados como carnada por pumas. Ocho a 12 pumas (6 machos, 2-5 hembras, 1 de sexo desconocido) comieron 20 de los 46 cadveres de venado (43.5%) localizados en 12 de los 25 sitios. Seis pumas (4 machos, 2 hembras) se capturaron 7 veces en los sitios de carroa. Identificamos 7 pumas como carroeros (5 machos, 2 hembras) por medio de capturas y telemetra, y un macho sin marcar por medio de una trampa de cmara. Los 7 pumas con radiotransmisores que se alimentaron de carroa variaron de edad entre 11 meses y 9 aos, y cada uno se alimento de 1 a 6 venados (promedio = 2.3). Los cadveres de venado fueron encontrados por los pumas de 1 a 14 das (promedio = 5 das) despus de ser colocados, cuando las condiciones de los cadveres partan de congelados y frescos a podridos e infestados de larvas de mosca. Los pumas trataron a los cadveres de venados como si fueran sus propias capturas arrastrando cadveres a sitios preferidos para almacenar, depositando excretas, y haciendo rascaderas en el rea. Sin embargo, los pumas no siempre trataron de esconder los cadveres atados. Durante el trabajo de campo descubrimos que un puma con radio visitaba en repetidas ocasiones un cementerio de animales domsticos alimentndose de cadveres de caballos y ganado dejados en la superficie. Se sabe que el puma es un depredador oportunista, pero nuestros resultados indican que tambin son carroeros oportunistas. Debido a la preferencia del puma a utilizar carroa, es probable que algunas especies presa atribuidas a cacera sean de hecho carroa. El monitoreo frecuente y a tiempo de seales de muerte de especies presa con radiotransmisores ayudar a los investigadores a determinar esos eventos. El comportamiento carroero debe considerarse cuando se quiera evaluar o predecir los efectos de la depredacin de especies presa por el puma.
3672298|Seeds collected from coyote scats in southern California were tested for germination. Eighteen of 38 plant species germinated. Native species that germinated included Arctostaphylos glauca, Arctostaphylos sp., Heteromeles arbutifolia, Opuntia littoralis, Prosopis glandulosa, Prunus ilicifolia, and Washingtonia filifera. Exotic species that germinated included Annona cherimola, Cucumis sp., Ficus sp., Lycopersicon esculentum, Panicum miliaceum, Phoenix sp., Prunus sp., and Pyracantha sp. Additional species thought to be exotic that germinated were Fragaria sp., Vitis sp., and an unidentified species. Compared to seeds directly off the plant, O. littoralis germinated significantly more frequently following passage through coyotes, whereas H. arbutifolia germinated significantly less often. Although coyotes are dispersing exotic plant seeds in viable condition, none of the seeds identified in this study were considered invasive. /// Se analiz la germinacin en semillas colectadas de heces de coyote en el sur de California. Dieciocho de las 38 especies de plantas germinaron. Las especies nativas que germinaron incluyeron Arctostaphylos glauca, Arctostaphylos sp., Heteromeles arbutifolia, Opuntia littoralis, Prosopis glandulosa, Prunus ilicifolia, y Washingtonia filifera. Las especies exticas que germinaron fueron Annona cherimola, Cucumis sp., Ficus sp., Lycopersicon esculentum, Panicum miliaceum, Phoenix sp., Prunus sp., y Pyracantha sp. Otras probables especies que se creyeron exticas que germinaron fueron Fragaria sp., Vitis sp., y una especie no identificada. Comparadas con las semillas cosechadas directamente de la planta, O. littoralis germin significativamente ms frecuentemente despus de pasar por los coyotes, mientras que H. arbutifolia germin significativamente menos frecuentemente. Aunque los coyotes estn dispersando semillas de plantas exticas en condiciones viables, ninguna de las especies encontradas en este estudio fue considerada invasora.
3672299|Large-scale native woodland loss in the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas during the 20th century has been reported in the literature. However, no detailed, quantitative study of landscape change in the area has been conducted. This paper presents an example of quantified native woodland loss within this area. Using historical topographic maps and aerial photographs, we were able to map the extent of native woodland areas in Cameron County in the 1930s. The historical native woodland areas were then compared with the 1983 extent of native woodlands as mapped on modern topographic quadrangles. Our results for Cameron County corroborate previous estimates of native woodlands loss in the Lower Rio Grande Valley, though at a slightly lower percentage (91%). Comparisons with recent land-use and land-cover mapping show that much of the loss was a result of agricultural expansion. /// Se ha registrado en la literatura una gran prdida de bosques nativos en el Valle Bajo del Ro Grande en Texas durante el siglo XX. Sin embargo, no hay estudios detallados cuantitativos de los cambios del paisaje del rea. Este artculo presenta un ejemplo de la prdida de bosques nativos en esta rea. Mediante mapas topogrficos y fotografas areas pudimos representar cartogrficamente la extensin de las reas de bosques nativos en el condado de Cameron durante la dcada de 1930. El rea de bosques nativos que exista en esa poca se compar entonces con la extensin de los bosques nativos en 1983, determinada en mapas topogrficos modernos de la malla de cuadrngulos cartogrficos. Nuestros resultados en el condado de Cameron confirman estimaciones anteriores sobre la prdida de bosques nativos en el Valle Bajo del Ro Grande, aunque en un porcentaje ligeramente menor (91%). Comparaciones entre mapas recientes de uso de terreno y de cobertura superficial muestran que una gran parte de la prdida fue producida por la expansin agrcola.
3672300|Seedlings of Ferocactus wislizeni and Mammillaria grahamii, 2 common cactus species in the northern Sonoran Desert, emerged under protective cages that had been left in place for 6 years after an initial sowing of numerous Carnegiea gigantea and F. wislizeni seeds. Because no seeds were sown in the interim, Mammillaria and Ferocactus seedlings must have emerged from persistent seed banks. Mammillaria seeds evidently survived in or on the soil as long as 6 years, forming a long-term persistent seed bank, and Ferocactus seeds apparently survived up to 3 years, forming a short-term persistent seed bank. No Carnegiea seedlings emerged, confirming that this species has a transient seed bank This is the first evidence for a between-year seed bank in M. grahamii and the first confirmation of a between-year seed bank in F. wislizeni. /// Plntulas de Ferocactus wislizenii y de Mammillaria grahamii, dos especies comunes de cactceas en el Desierto Sonorense, brotaron del suelo bajo de jaulas de proteccin que fueron dejadas en sitio por seis aos despus de sembrar muchas semillas de Carnegiea gigantea y de F. wislizenii. Porque ninguna semilla fue sembrada entretanto, las plntulas de Mammillaria y de Ferocactus tuvieron que haber emergido del suelo de bancos persistentes de semillas. Semillas de Mammillaria evidentemente sobrevivieron por lo menos seis aos dentro del suelo o sobre el suelo, constituyendo un banco de semillas a largo plazo, y semillas de Ferocactus aparentemente sobrevivieron hasta tres aos, formando un banco de semillas a corto plazo. Ninguna plntula de Carnegiea emergi, confirmando que esta especie slo tiene un banco efmero de semillas. Esta es la primera evidencia de un banco de semillas entre aos en M. grahamii y la primera confirmacin de un banco de semillas entre aos en F. wislizenii.
3672301|The river shiner, Notropis blennius, was collected from Lake Meredith, Texas and outside of its reported native range. This specimen likely represents a bait-bucket release. Within its native range, the river shiner readily acclimates to lentic conditions, increases in abundance, and displaces other riverine fishes following flow regime alterations. Its occurrence and possible establishment might have similar negative impacts on the Canadian River fish assemblage upstream from Lake Meredith, which includes the threatened Arkansas River shiner, Notropis girardi. /// Notropis blennius fue colectado en el Lago Meredith, Texas, y fuera de su distribucin nativa registrada. Esta especie probablemente representa un tipo de cebo liberado. Dentro de su distribucin nativa, esta especie es conocida por su habilidad de climatizarse a condiciones de corrientes mnimas, de incrementar su abundancia rpidamente, y de desplazar a otras especies de peces ro viales despus de cambios de manejo de corriente. Su apariencia y posiblemente establecimiento pueden causar impactos negativos parecidos a la comunidad de peces que se encuentre ro arriba del Lago Meredith en el Ro Canad. Una de estas especies ya amenazada es Notropis girardi.
3672302|We report the first case of unusually frequent abnormal anatomy in Pseudacris streckeri and the first such account for anurans in the state of Texas. We found abnormal digits in 55% of 40 adult males and 26% of 23 adult females in Austin, Texas. In contrast to other studies that reported frequent abnormal limbs and cutaneous fusion, abnormalities were restricted to digits. None of 325 newly metamorphosed juveniles showed abnormal digits, indicating that the abnormalities are formed after metamorphosis, or that the cause of the abnormalities was not active during the sampling period. Abnormalities continued to be found in the adults of this population during the following 3 years. /// Registramos el primer caso de anomalas anatmicas inusualmente frecuentes en la ranita Pseudacris streckeri y el primer caso para anuros en el estado de Texas. Encontramos dgitos anmalos en 55% de 40 machos adultos y 26% de 23 hembras adultas en Austin, Texas. En contraste con otros estudios que registran miembros anmalos y fusin cutnea, las anomalas estuvieron restringidas a los dgitos. Ninguno de los 325 juveniles recin metamorfoseados tena dgitos anmalos, indicando que las anomalas se formaron antes de la metamorfosis y que la causa de las anomalas no estaba activa durante el periodo de muestreo. Se encontraron anomalas en los adultos de esta poblacin durante los 3 aos siguientes.
3672303|A description of 3 neonate western long-nosed snakes (Rhinocheilus lecontei lecontei) that hatched from one clutch of eggs is provided. Each individual differed in color pattern. One of the neonates was striped. Standard morphometric data for the hatchlings are provided. The history of color pattern polymorphism in R. l. lecontei is discussed. A similar example of striping in another banded snake taxon is related, substantiating the taxonomic significance of reporting the second known striped specimen of R. l. lecontei. /// Se provee una descripcin de tres cras de culebrilla texana de nariz larga (Rhinocheilus lecontei lecontei) que eclosionaron de una nidada. Cada individuo difiri en el patrn de color. Una de las cras result rayada. Se proveen medidas morfomtricas estndares para estas cras. Se discute la historia del patrn polimorfo del color en R. l. lecontei. Un ejemplo similar del patrn de rayas en otro taxn ofidio de bandas es mencionado, apoyando la importancia taxonmica de registrar el segundo espcimen rayado conocido de R. l. lecontei.
3672304|New evidence is presented that suggests that the single specimen of Elgaria usafa from the Sierra del Nido in Chihuahua is an aberrantly patterned E. kingii. We suggest that E. usafa be considered a junior synonym of E. kingii. /// Presentamos evidencia nueva que sugiere que el nico espcimen de Elgaria usafa de la Sierra del Nido en Chihuahua es un patrn aberrante de E. kingii. Sugerimos que E. usafa sea considerado un sinnimo menor de E. kingii.
3672305|We performed Exploratory Data Analysis on data sets assembled to determine subspecies limits of great horned owls (Bubo virginianus) in Texas; the results revealed unusual patterns of tail measurements. In the subspecies B. v. pallescens, tail lengths of males (206.0 mm) were longer than those of females (202.5 mm). Additionally, tail length was longer in intergrades (males = 209.4, females = 213.5) than for either subspecies (B. v. virginianus males = 206.2, females = 209.0; B. v. pallescens males = 206.0, females = 202.5). /// Realizamos un Anlisis Exploratorio de Datos para determinar lmites de subespecies del bho cornudo (Bubo virginianus) en Texas; los resultados revelaron un patrn inusual en las medidas de la cola. En machos de la subespecie B. v. pallescens la longitud de la cola (206.0 mm) fue ms larga que en las hembras (202.5 mm). Adicionalmente, la longitud de la cola fue ms larga en estados intermedios (machos = 209.4, hembras = 213.5) que en las otras subespecies (B. v. virginianus machos = 206.2, hembras = 209.0; B. v. pallescens machos = 206.0, hembras = 202.5).
3672306|The breeding range of the slate-throated redstart (Myioborus miniatus) stretches from South America to Mexico, where it extends northward along the Sierra Madre Oriental to southeastern Coahuila and along the Sierra Madre Occidental to southern Chihuahua and Sonora. We report the discovery of slate-throated redstarts breeding in the Maderas del Carmen mountains in Coahuila. This represents a range extension of approximately 400 km and is, to our knowledge, the northernmost breeding record for this species. /// La distribucin de cra del chipe de montaa (Myioborus miniatus) se extiende desde Sudamrica hasta Mxico, donde comprende la Sierra Madre Oriental al sureste de Coahuila y la Sierra Madre Occidental al sur de Chihuahua y Sonora. Documentamos el descubrimiento de chipes de montaa criando en las montaas de Maderas del Carmen, Coahuila. Este hallazgo constituye una extensin de la distribucin de cra de unos 400 km y posiblemente representa el registro de cra ms norteo para esta especie.
3672307|Nelsonia neotomodon is recorded for the first time for the state of Chihuahua, Mexico. This record extends the distribution of this species 250 km to the north. Morphometric and reproductive information for a sample of N. neotomodon, as well as additional unpublished records, are provided. The data suggest that this species has a continuous distribution in the Sierra Madre Occidental and that there is no significant geographic variation or sexual dimorphism. /// Se registra por primera vez la presencia de Nelsonia neotomodon en el estado de Chihuahua, Mxico. Este registro extiende la distribucin de la especie 250 km al norte. Se proporcionan datos morfomtricos y reproductivos de una muestra de N. neotomodon, as como de material que no haba sido previamente documentada. Los datos disponibles sugieren que esta especie tiene una distribucin continua en la Sierra Madre Occidental y que no existen ni dimorfismo sexual ni variacin geogrfica significativos.
3672308|The desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana) population in the Santa Catalina Mountains, Arizona, has declined since the 1920s and was virtually extirpated in the late 1990s. Urban development, human recreation, and changes in habitat conditions due to wildfire suppression have contributed to the decline. Wildfires in 2002 and 2003 burned approximately 46,701 ha in the Santa Catalina Mountains, including areas previously inhabited by desert bighorn sheep. Our objectives were to estimate the amount of potential and historical bighorn sheep habitat in the Santa Catalina Mountains and to determine if the fires improved habitat quality for bighorn sheep. We created a spatial habitat suitability model to estimate the amount of potential and historical habitat available for bighorn sheep in the Santa Catalina Mountains. We then used Burn Severity maps and the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index to examine the impact of recent wildfires on bighorn sheep habitat. We calculated 39,201 and 9,017 ha of potential and historical habitat of desert bighorn sheep, respectively. Historical bighorn sheep habitat in the western Santa Catalina Mountains declined 64% since 1989. Approximately 21% of potential habitat and 24% of historical bighorn sheep habitat were burned during the fires, most of which experienced low burn severity that was not high enough to remove vegetation that decreases habitat quality for desert bighorn sheep. Any consideration of translocation of desert bighorn sheep to the Santa Catalina Mountains should further assess the suitability of the areas identified as potential habitat. /// La poblacin del borrego cimarrn del desierto (Ovis canadensis mexicana) en las montaas de Santa Catalina, Arizona, ha disminuido desde que la dcada del 1920 y virtualmente se elimin a finales de la dcada del 1990. El desarrollo urbano, la recreacin humana, y los cambios en las condiciones de hbitat debidos a la supresin de incendios han contribuido al descenso. Los incendios forestales en 2002 y 2003 quemaron aproximadamente 46,701 ha en las Montaas de Santa Catalina, incluyendo reas previamente habitadas por el borrego cimarrn. Nuestros objetivos fueron estimar la cantidad de hbitat potencial e histrico del borrego cimarrn en las Montaas de Santa Catalina y determinar si los fuegos mejoraron la calidad del hbitat para el borrego cimarrn. Creamos un modelo de hbitat espacial favorable para estimar la cantidad del hbitat potencial e histrico disponibles para el borrego cimarrn en las Montaas de Santa Catalina. Despus, utilizamos mapas de Severidad de Incendio y un ndice de Diferencia de Vegetacin Normalizado para evaluar el impacto de incendios recientes en el hbitat del borrego cimarrn. Calculamos 39,201 y 9,017 ha de hbitat potencial e histrico del borrego cimarrn, respectivamente. El hbitat histrico del borrego cimarrn en las Montaas de Santa Catalina occidentales disminuy un 64% desde 1989. Aproximadamente 21% del hbitat potencial y 24% del hbitat histrico de borrego cimarrn se quemaron durante los incendios, la mayora de los cuales tuvieron baja severidad y no debe haber sido suficientemente alta para eliminar el tipo de vegetacin que disminuye la calidad del hbitat para el borrego cimarrn. Cualquier consideracin de reintroducciones de borrego cimarrn a las Montaas de Santa Catalina debe evaluar an ms la posibilidad de uso las reas identificadas como hbitat potencial.
3672309|Animals that inhabit vegetative communities where thorns and spines are common should be capable of moving while avoiding injury from thorns and spines. On 21 December 2003, we found that a saguaro cactus (Carnegiea gigantea) spine had penetrated the lacrimal bone into the orbit of a desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) in south-central Arizona. The animal was observed with clinical infectious keratoconjunctivitis and was blind for 3 weeks prior to death. It is likely that the animal collided with a saguaro cactus after she became blinded by disease. /// Los animales que habitan comunidades de vegetacin donde las pas y espinas son comunes deben ser capaces de trasladarse y a la vez evitar lesiones producidas por pas y espinas. El 21 de diciembre del 2003 encontramos que una espina del cactus saguaro (Carnegiea gigantea) haba penetrado el hueso lacrimal hasta la orbita de un borrego cimarrn (Ovis canadensis) en Arizona sur-central. El animal tuvo una infeccin keratoconjuntivitis y estuvo ciego durante tres semanas antes de morir. Es posible que el animal chocara con un cactus saguaro despus de haber sido cegada por una enfermedad.
3672310|Collared peccary (Tayassu tajacu) and wild pig (Sus scrofa) exist in sympatry in southern Texas. These species vary in the structure of the digestive system and in adult body size, which might influence digestive performance. Our objective was to assess differences in digestive system efficiency between these species, controlling for body size. Four peccaries and 4 young pigs of similar size were fed a standardized amount of a commercial feed (38% neutral detergent fiber, 12% crude protein) based on metabolic body weight (kg<sup>0.75</sup>) for 8 days. Feed consumed and feces produced were measured during the last 5 days of the trial. No differences were found for digestive performance between the 2 species, although pigs excreted 95% of chromium-marked fiber sooner than peccaries. Although peccaries have a complex stomach in which fermentation occurs, they apparently do not gain a significant benefit in digestibility of dry matter, energy, or fiber relative to a hindgut fermenter of similar body size when eating similar amounts of food. Peccaries might, however, benefit from microbial products (e.g., vitamins and amino acids) that would not be readily available if fermentation occurred exclusively in the hindgut. Our results do not suggest that either species has a competitive advantage in dry matter digestion of plant material. /// El jabal (Tayassu tajacu) y el cerdo (Sus scrofa) coexisten en el sur de Texas. Estas especies difieren en la estructura del sistema digestivo y en tamao corporal adulto, lo cual puede influenciar su funcionamiento digestivo. Nuestro objetivo fue evaluar las diferencias en la eficacia del sistema digestivo entre estas especies, controlando por el tamao corporal. Cuatro jabales y 4 cerdos jvenes de tamao similar fueron alimentados con una dieta standard de alimento comercial (38% fibra detergente neutra, 12% proteina bruta) en base a su peso metablico (kg<sup>0.75</sup>) durante 8 das. Se midieron la comida consumida y las heces producidas durante los ltimos cinco das de la prueba. No se encontraron diferencias en el funcionamiento digestivo entre las 2 especies, aun cuando los cerdos excretaron 95% de la fibra marcada con cromo mas rpido que los jabales. Aunque los jabales poseen un estmago complejo donde ocurre la fermentacin, aparentemente no existe un beneficio significativo en la digestibilidad de la materia seca, energa, o fibra comparado con los fermentadores post-gstricos de tamao similar cuando consumen cantidades iguales de alimento. Los jabales podran tener algn beneficio de productos microbiales (i.e., vitaminas y aminocidos), los cuales no estaran disponibles si la fermentacin fuera exclusivamente post-gstrica. Nuestros resultados no indican que cualquiera de las especies posea ventaja competitiva para la digestin de material seca vegetal.
3672706|We recorded 156 taxa of legumes, comprising 50 genera, 152 species, and 34 infra-specific taxa, in the southern part of state of Nuevo Len. Genera with the highest numbers of species were Dalea (19), Desmodium (12), Acacia (10), Astragalus (10), Phaseolus (8), Mimosa (8), Lupinus (7), and Senna (6). The growth forms were herbaceous species (49% of species), shrubby species (33%), twining and climbing species (16%), and arboreal species (2%). The highest numbers of taxa were in oak-pine forest (95), coniferous forest (excluding Pinus cembroides) (93), oak forest (59), and Pinus cembroides forest (56). Based on legume distribution in different plant communities, 3 distributional patterns were recognized: 1) shrublands and halophytic grasslands; 2) oak, oak-pine, coniferous (other than Pinus cembroides), and Pinus cemborides forests and piedmont scrub; and 3) subalpine prairie. /// Registramos un total de 156 taxa de leguminosas en el sur del estado de Nuevo Len, que incluyen 50 gneros, 152 especies y 34 taxa infraespecficas. Los gneros con mayor nmero de especies son Dalea (19), Desmodium (12), Acacia (10), Astragalus (10), Phaseolus (8), Mimosa (8) Lupinus (7), y Senna (6). Las formas de crecimiento fueron especies herbceas (49% de las especies), especies arbustivas (33%), especies de lianas y enredaderas (16%) y especies arbreas (2%). El mayor nmero de taxa se registr en el bosque de encino-pino (95), bosque de conferas (no de Pinus cembroides) (93), bosque de encino (59) y bosque de Pinus cembroides (56). De acuerdo con la distribucin de leguminosas en las diferentes comunidades vegetales, se reconocen 3 patrones de distribucin: 1) matorrales y pastizales halfitos; 2) bosques de encino, encino-pino, conferas (no de Pinus cembroides), y de Pinus cembroides y matorral submontano; y 3) pradera subalpina.
3672707|We studied the seed dispersal process of a population of Bursera fagaroides (Burseraceae) on the coast of the Gulf of Mexico by considering 1) all phases of the dispersal process (i.e., fruit removal, effect of seed passage through digestive tract, seed deposition, removal of seeds from the ground, germination, growth and survival of seedlings and adults, and seed set); 2) plant and animal components and their interaction; and 3) spatial variation in these components using different subpopulations. Hill aspect and surrounding microenvironment or habitat affected individuals of B. fagaroides, and this effect depended on life stage (seed, seedling, or adult). Seed germination was greater in moderately-shaded areas (below the perennial plant species Coccoloba barbadensis) than in relatively open sites (below B. fagaroides or on bare sand); seedlings grew less on sites in bright sunlight; adult individuals were not detected in highly-shaded places; and females inhabiting open sites (grassland) had more removed seeds than those of shaded areas (shrubland and dry forest). Vireo griseus and Dumetella carolinensis, the only species consuming fruits of B. fagaroides during our study, differed in their effect on seeds: seeds ingested by V. griseus did not germinate, whereas 17% of seeds ingested by D. carolinensis germinated. Additionally, even though both bird species preferred the tropical dry forest, their foraging behavior differed. Vireo griseus was mostly found at mid-canopy height in tree-dominated sites, and D. carolinensis used the understory of shrubby areas; B. fagaroides does not inhabit tree-dominated sites. Our results indicated that there was no "best" place for a seed to land. What is suitable for a seed might not be optimal for a fruiting plant. Thus, patterns of seed dispersal are almost certainly altered by processes that happen long after seed deposition. /// Estudiamos el proceso de dispersin de semillas de una poblacin de Bursera fagaroides (Burseraceae) en la costa del Golfo de Mxico considerando 1) todas las fases del proceso de dispersin (por ejemplo, remocin de frutos, efecto en las semillas del paso por el tracto digestivo, deposicin de la semilla, remocin de la semilla del suelo, germinacin, crecimiento y supervivencia de plntulas y adultos y produccin de semillas); 2) componentes animales y vegetales y su interaccin; y 3) la variacin espacial de estos componentes usando diferentes subpoblaciones. El aspecto de las laderas y el microambiente circundante o hbitat afectaron a los individuos de B. fagaroides, y este efecto dependi de la fase de desarrollo (semilla, plntula o adulto). La germinacin de semillas fue mayor en sitios de sombra moderada (bajo una planta perenne, Coccoloba barbadensis) que en sitios relativamente abiertos (bajo B. fagaroides o sobre arena desnuda); las plntulas crecieron menos en sitios abiertos; no se detectaron individuos adultos en lugares altamente sombreados, y en las hembras que habitaban sitios abiertos (pastizales) se removieron ms semillas que en las zonas sombreadas (matorrales y bosque seco). Vireo griseus y Dumetella carolinensis, las nicas especies de aves que consumieron frutos de B. fagaroides durante nuestro estudio, difirieron en su efecto en las semillas; semillas ingeridas por V. griseus no germinaron, mientras que el 17% de las semillas ingeridas por D. carolinensis s germinaron. Adems, a pesar de que ambas especies de aves prefirieron el bosque seco tropical su conducta de forrajeo difiri. Vireo griseus se encuentr usualmente a media altura del dosel en sitios arbolados, y D. carolinensis us el sotobosque de reas arbustivas; B. fagaroides no habita reas dominadas por rboles. Nuestros resultados indicaron que no hubo un "mejor" lugar para que caigan las semillas. Lo que es un lugar adecuado para que se deposite una semilla puede no ser ptimo para una planta en fructificacin. Por lo tanto, los patrones de dispersin de semillas probablemente son susceptibles de ser modificados por procesos que suceden mucho tiempo despus de la deposicin de las semillas.
3672708|Native fishes of the Upper Colorado River Basin have experienced substantial declines in abundance and distribution, and are extirpated from most of Wyoming. Muddy Creek, in south-central Wyoming (Little Snake River watershed), contains sympatric populations of native roundtail chub (Gila robusta), bluehead sucker, (Catostomus discobolus), and flannelmouth sucker (C. latipinnis), and represents an area of high conservation concern because it is the only area known to have sympatric populations of all 3 species in Wyoming. However, introduced creek chub (Semotilus atromaculatus) are abundant and might have a negative influence on native fishes. We assessed summer food habits of roundtail chub and creek chub to provide information on the ecology of each species and obtain insight on potential trophic overlap. Roundtail chub and creek chub seemed to be opportunistic generalists that consumed a diverse array of food items. Stomach contents of both species were dominated by plant material, aquatic and terrestrial insects, and fishes, but also included gastropods and mussels. Stomach contents were similar between species, indicating high trophic overlap. No length-related patterns in diet were observed for either species. These results suggest that creek chubs have the potential to adversely influence the roundtail chub population through competition for food and the native fish assemblage through predation. /// Peces nativos de Upper Colorado River Basin han experimentado una decadencia substancial en abundancia y distribucin, y han sido eliminados de la mayor parte del Estado de Wyoming. Muddy Creek, en la parte sur central de Wyoming (la cuenca del Little Snake River), contiene poblaciones simptricas del charalito aleta redonda (Gila robusta), y de los matalotes Catostomus discobolus, y C. latipinnis y representa un rea de alta preocupacin para la conservacin debido a que es la nica rea conocida que tiene poblaciones simptricas de las tres especies en Wyoming. Sin embargo, la especie extica Semotilus atromaculatus, es abundate y puede tener una influencia negativa en los peces nativos. Analizamos los hbitos alimenticios de G. robusta y S. atromaculatus con el objetivo de proveer informacin sobre la ecologa de cada especie y obtener ideas con respecto a una posible superposicin trfica entre ambas especies. Gila robusta y S. atromaculatus parecen ser generalistas y oportunistas que consumen una diversidad de alimentos. Material vegetal, insectos acuticos y terrestres, y peces dominaron los contenidos estomacales de ambas especies, aunque gasterpodos y moluscos tambin fueron detectados. Los contenidos estomacales de ambas especies fueron similares, lo que indica una alta superposicin trfica. Ningn patrn en dieta relacionado con longitud fue observado en estas dos especies. Los resultados de esta investigacin sugieren que S. atromaculatus tiene el potencial de afectar negativamente a G. robusta a travs de una competencia por alimentos y al grupo de peces nativos a travs de la depredacin.
3672709|Reliable estimates of extinction time for small populations of threatened and endangered species based on long-term field surveys provide crucial information for species conservation. We estimated population parameters and extinction times for Coachella Valley fringe-toed lizard (Uma inornata), which is listed as a federally threatened species and a California state endangered species. We used field survey data from 2 transects (TPP1 and TPP2) at Thousand Palms Preserve, California, from 1986 to 2003. We also used data from another subpopulation (TPP3) of this species 6 km from TPP1 and TPP2, where this species became extinct in 2001, to estimate uncertainty of extinction time. Our results indicated that the difference between modeled extinction time and the real extinction time of the subpopulation on TPP3 was about 2 y. The extinction times for U. inornata at TPP1 and TPP2 would be about 23 to 50 y. The extinction time estimate has good relationship with the habitat area; thus, in larger effective habitat area, there will be an increase in the estimated time to extinction. Assuming all available habitats have population connectivity, the estimated extinction time would be about 78 y. There was a trend toward a decrease in the mean reproductive productivity of the lizard during the study. Although there were cycles in population dynamics, the population density trajectories on phase diagram became close to 0. For fragmented sand-dune habitats <100 to 200 ha, the persistence of subpopulations of U. inornata is doubtful. The main cause for the decrease of this subpopulation might be the shortage of food resources during the frequent, severe droughts. /// Las estimaciones confiables de tiempo de extincin basadas en estudios de campo a largo plazo, en pequeas poblaciones de especies amenazadas y en peligro de extincin, proveen informacin crucial para la conservacin de las especies. Estimamos parmetros poblacionales y tiempos de extincin para la lagartija del Valle de Coachella (Uma inornata), la cual est enlistada como especie amenazada a nivel federal y en peligro de extincin para el estado de California. Utilizamos datos de campo de dos transectos (TPP1 y TPP2) en Thousand Palms Preserve, California, de 1986 al 2003. Para estimar con exactitud el tiempo de extincin, tambin utilizamos datos de otra subpoblacin de la misma especie (TPP3) a 6 km de TPP1 y TPP2, donde sta especie se extingui en el ao 2001. Nuestros resultados indicaron que la diferencia entre el tiempo de extincin modelado y el tiempo de extincin real de la subpoblacin en TPP3 fue de aproximadamente dos aos. Los tiempos de extincin para U. inornata en TPP1 y en TPP2 podran ser alrededor de 23 a 30 aos. La estimacin del tiempo de extincin tiene buena relacin con el rea del hbitat, ya que a mayor rea efectiva del hbitat habr un incremento en el tiempo estimado de extincin. Suponiendo que todos los hbitats disponibles tienen conectividad de poblaciones, el tiempo estimado de extincin podra ser alrededor de 78 aos. Durante los aos del estudio, hubo una tendencia hacia el decremento en el promedio de la productividad reproductiva de las lagartijas. A pesar de que hubo ciclos en la dinmica poblacional, las trayectorias de la densidad poblacional en un diagrama de fase se acercaron a cero. La persistencia de subpoblaciones de Uma inornata es dudosa en hbitats de dunas de arena fragmentadas <100 a 200 ha. La causa principal por el decremento de esta subpoblacin podra ser la escasez de los recursos alimenticios durante las frecuentes y severas sequas.
3672710|Little is known about the ecology of the alligator snapping turtle, Macrochelys temminckii, particularly demography and behavior. To learn more about the species in Oklahoma, we conducted a telemetry project on 2 small streams at Sequoyah National Wildlife Refuge, an 8,417.5-ha refuge located in east-central Oklahoma. Between June 1999 and August 2000, we fitted 19 M. temminckii with ultrasonic telemetry tags and studied turtle movements and microhabitat use. Turtles were checked 2 to 3 times weekly in summer and sporadically in winter. Several microhabitat variables were measured at each turtle location and a random location to help quantify microhabitat use vs. availability. We recorded 147 turtle locations. Turtles were always associated with submerged cover with a high percentage of overhead canopy cover. Turtles used deeper depths in late summer (but not deeper depths than random locations) and deeper depths in mid-winter (and deeper depths than random locations) than in early summer. They used shallower depths than random locations in early summer. This seasonal shift in depth use might be thermoregulatory, although evidence for this is indirect. The mean linear home range for all turtles was 777.8 m. Females had larger home ranges than males, and juveniles had larger home ranges than adults, although the latter was not statistically significant. Macrochelys temminckii used submerged structures as a core site, and stayed at each core site for an average of 12.3 d. /// No se sabe mucho de la ecologa de la tortuga Macrochelys temminckii, especialmente de su demografa y comportamiento. Para conocer ms a la especie en Oklahoma iniciamos un proyecto de telemetra en dos riachuelos chicos en el Refugio Nacional de Fauna Silvestre de Sequoyah, un refugio de 8,417.5 ha en el centro-este de Oklahoma. Entre junio de 1999 y agosto del 2000, armamos a 19 individuos de la tortuga con equipos de telemetra ultrasnica y estudiamos sus patrones de desplazamiento y uso de microhbitat. Se revisaron las tortugas 2 a 3 veces cada semana en el verano y espordicamente en el invierno. Se registraron varios parmetros de microhbitat en cada ubicacin de tortuga y una ubicacin al azar para ayudar a cuantificar el uso vs. la disponibilidad de microhbitat. Se registraron 147 ubicaciones de tortugas. Las tortugas siempre estuvieron asociadas con cubierta sumergida con un alto porcentaje de dosel arriba. Las tortugas usaron agua ms profunda en el verano tardo (pero no ms profunda que las ubicaciones al azar) y agua ms profunda a mediados del invierno (y ms profunda que las ubicaciones al azar) que en el verano temprano. Usaron agua menos profunda que ubicaciones al azar en el verano temprano. Este cambio estacional en el uso de profundidad puede ser termorregulatorio, pero la evidencia no es directa. El promedio de rango de hogar lineal para todas las tortugas fue de 777.8 m. Las hembras tuvieron rangos de hogar ms grandes que los machos, y los juveniles tuvieron rangos de hogar ms grandes que los adultos, pero el ltimo no fue estadsticamente significativo. Macrochelys temminckii us estructuras sumergidas como un sitio principal y se qued en cada sitio principal por un promedio de 12.3 das.
3672711|Innate avoidance responses by potential predators to color patterns of snakes have been reported. Predation that is nonrandom with respect to the phenotype of the prey species is a well-characterized mechanism of natural selection, the driving force of adaptive evolution. Using both model and live snakes, we investigated the responses of 11 nave roadrunners, Geococcyx californianus, to 3 sympatric species of venomous and nonvenomous snake (Micruroides euryxanthus, Pituophis catenifer, and Crotalus atrox). Neither model nor live coral snakes elicited overt avoidance responses from the birds. Models elicited fewer pecks than moving live snakes. A gopher snake and a rattlesnake also failed to elicit overt avoidance behaviors. However, in contrast to the coral snakes, both snakes elicited a significantly higher number of leaps and wing flips, behaviors used by roadrunners when subduing dangerous prey. We conclude that roadrunners have no overt innate reactive behaviors to color patterns of coral snakes. Roadrunners do display such behaviors to rattlesnakes and gopher snakes as if both were dangerous prey, suggesting either Batesian or Mullerian mimicry. /// Respuestas innatas de rechazo a los patrones de colores en serpientes por depredadores potenciales han sido reportadas. La depredacin no al azar con respecto al fenotipo de la presa es un mecanismo bien caracterizado de la seleccin natural, la fuerza motora de la evolucin adaptativa. Utilizando serpientes vivas e imitaciones, investigamos las respuestas de 11 correcaminos sin experiencia, Geococcyx californianus, a 3 especies simptricas de serpientes venenosas y no venenosas (Micruroides euryxanthus, Pituophis catenifer y Crotalus atrox). Ni las serpientes coral reales ni las ficticias produjeron una conducta de rechazo por parte de las aves. Las serpientes ficticias produjeron menos picoteos que las serpientes reales con movimiento. Una P. catenifer y una C. atrox tampoco provocaron comportamientos de rechazo. Sin embargo, en contraste a las serpientes coral, ambas indujeron significativamente ms saltos y aleteos, conductas usadas por los correcaminos cuando someten a presas peligrosas. Concluimos que los correcaminos no exhiben miedo innato frente al patrn de color de la serpiente coral. Los correcaminos muestran esos comportamientos de precaucin frente a P. catenifer y C. atrox, como si ambas fuesen presas peligrosas, sugiriendo mimetismo ya sea, Batesiano o Mulleriano.
3672712|We measured reproductive success of 52 Chihuahuan raven (Corvus cryptoleucus) nests in the southern High Plains of Texas in 1999. Egg laying was initiated between 12 April and 21 June. We observed 5.2  0.2 eggs (mean  SE) per nest, 3.3  0.3 hatched chicks per nest, and 2.6  0.2 fledged chicks per nest. Incorporating "days at risk," we estimated reproductive success was 36.5  0.5%, and reproductive output was 1.9 fledged chicks per nesting female. Average distance from each nest to its nearest neighbor nest was 851  168 m (minimum = 233 m, maximum = 8,465 m). Nest success was unrelated to nearest neighbor distance or nest height, but was correlated with clutch initiation date. The likelihood of nest failure increased by 0.9% with each passing day. /// Medimos el xito reproductivo de 52 nidos de cuervos chihuahuenses (Corvus cryptoleucus) en las planicies altas sureas de Texas en 1999. La nidificacin se inici entre el 12 de abril y el 21 de junio. Observamos 5.2 huevos  0.2 (promedio  ES) por nido, 3.3  0.3 polluelos eclosionados por nido, y 2.6  0.2 polluelos plumados por nido. Incorporando "das en riesgo," estimamos que el xito reproductivo fue de 36.5  0.5% y el rendimiento reproductivo fue de 1.9 polluelos plumados por hembra empollando. La distancia promedio de cada nido a su ms cercano vecino fue de 851  168 m (mnimo = 233 m, mximo = 8,465 m). El xito de un nido no tuvo relacin con la distancia de su vecino o con la altura del nido, pero estuvo correlacionado con la fecha del inicio de la puesta. La probabilidad del fracaso del nido aument un 0.9% por cada da que pasaba.
3672713|We examined patterns of habitat use within a community of bats along the Provo River in Heber Valley, Utah. The landscape was divided into 5 habitat categories: riparian forest, wetland, agricultural field, edge, and a habitat restoration site. We used Anabat II bat detectors to record the number of echolocation calls per night within each habitat type as an index of bat activity. Echolocation calls were classified into foraging guilds based on acoustic traits, and we analyzed activity by entire community and by the 4 guilds related to habitat type and environmental variables. Activity was not significantly related to moon phase, average temperature, or day of the season. Activity by the entire bat community was significantly higher in riparian forest and edge habitats compared to other habitat types. Activity of the "high" Myotis guild was significantly greater in the riparian forest, edge habitats, and in the restored habitat site. Similarly, activity by the "low" Myotis guild was significantly higher in riparian forest and edge habitats. In contrast to the Myotis guilds, activity of molossids was significantly higher in agricultural fields compared to other habitats. Activity by the "low" Eptesicus guild did not vary significantly among habitats. /// Examinamos los patrones de uso del hbitat en una comunidad de murcilagos a lo largo del Provo River, en el Heber Valley, Utah. El hbitat fue dividido en cinco categoras: bosque ripario, humedal, terreno cultivado, borde de hbitat, y rea de restauracin de hbitat. Usamos detectores de murcilagos Anabat II para registrar el nmero de llamadas de ecolocacin por noche en cada tipo como un ndice de actividad de murcilagos. Las llamadas de ecolocacin fueron clasificadas en gremios de forrajeo basados en caractersticas acsticas y analizamos la actividad en toda la comunidad y en los 4 gremios relacionada con el tipo de hbitat y las variables medioambientales. La fase lunar, el promedio de la temperatura, o da de la estacin no se relacionaron significativamente con la actividad. A nivel de comunidad, la actividad de los murcilagos fue significativamente mayor en el bosque ripario y en los bordes de hbitat comparada con las otras reas de hbitat. Actividad del "alto" gremio Myotis fue significativamente ms alta en el bosque ripario, en los bordes de hbitat y en el rea de restauracin de hbitat. Similarmente, la actividad del "bajo" gremio Myotis fue significativamente ms alta en el bosque ripario y en los bordes de hbitat. En contraste con los gremios Myotis, la actividad del gremio de molsidos fue significativamente ms alta en terreno cultivado comparada con otros tipos de hbitat. La actividad del "bajo" gremio Eptesicus no vari significativamente entre tipos de hbitat.
3672714|Direct mortality of forest wildlife due to fire is rarely documented. In June and July 2004, the Nuttall Complex Fire burned 11,898 ha in the Pinaleo Mountains, southeastern Arizona. Portions of these mountains serve as the only habitat of endangered Mount Graham red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus grahamensis). Survival of radio-collared red squirrels over a period that included the fire was lower in areas that were burned than on unburned areas; however, the majority of squirrels on our study areas survived the fire. Distance of nests from middens did not differ between pre-fire and post-fire periods for animals in burned or unburned areas, indicating that squirrels did not abandon middens immediately after surviving the effects of fire. /// La mortandad directa de la fauna silvestre de los bosques a causa del fuego raramente se documenta. En junio y julio del 2004, el Nuttall Complex Fire quem 11,898 ha en las Pinaleo Mountains, al sureste de Arizona. Porciones de estas montaas sirven como el nico hbitat de las ardillas rojas en peligro de extincin, Tamiasciurus hudsonicus grahamensis. La supervivencia de las ardillas rojas con radiocollares en un perodo que incluy al fuego fue ms baja en reas que fueron quemadas que en las no quemadas; sin embargo, la mayora de las ardillas en nuestras reas de estudio sobrevivieron al fuego. La distancia de los nidos desde los muladares no difiri entre los periodos de pre-fuego post-fuego para los animales en reas quemadas o no quemadas, indicando que las ardillas no abandonaron los muladares inmediatamente despus de haber sobrevivido a los efectos del fuego.
3672715|Cavity nests are rarely used by Abert's squirrels (Sciurus aberti) in ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests. Introduced Abert's squirrels in the Pinaleo Mountains of Arizona, however, exhibit occasional use of cavity nests (ca. 10%). We examined characteristics of cavity nest sites in this introduced population. Cavity nests were located at two-thirds of the tree height and were found mainly in both dead and live aspen (Populus tremuloides). Aspen cavity trees were larger than aspen random trees. Aspen cavity sites had more large snags and less ponderosa pine and were less steep than aspen random sites. Abert's squirrels possibly use cavities in large aspen trees because thick trunks and older trees might allow larger cavities to form, might provide greater thermal and wind protection, or both. The greater use of cavity nests by the Abert's squirrels in our study could be due to the higher frequency of cavity-forming aspens or harsher winter conditions in mixed-conifer forests of the Pinaleo Mountains than in ponderosa pine forests where Abert's squirrels typically occur or both. /// Nidos en cavidades raramente son usados por las ardillas de Abert (Sciurus aberti) en bosques de pino ponderosa (Pinus ponderosa). Las ardillas de Abert introducidas en las Pinaleo Mountains de Arizona, sin embargo, exhiben uso moderado de nidos en cavidades (cerca de 10%). Examinamos las caractersticas de los sitios de nidos en cavidades en esta poblacin introducida. Los nidos en cavidades se localizaron a 2/3 de la altura del rbol y fueron encontradas principalmente en el lamo tembln (Populus tremuloides) vivo o muerto. Los lamos temblones con cavidades fueron ms grandes que los lamos al azar. Sitios con cavidades en lamos tuvieron ms rboles muertos grandes y menos pinos ponderosa y fueron menos empinados que sitios con lamos al azar. Las ardillas de Abert posiblemente usan cavidades en lamos grandes porque los troncos gruesos y rboles ms viejos pueden permitir que se formen cavidades, pueden proveer ms proteccin termal y contra el viento, o ambos. El mayor uso de nidos en cavidades por las ardillas de Abert en nuestra investigacin puede ser debido a la ms alta frecuencia de lamos con cavidades, o a los inviernos ms duros en los bosques mixtos de conferas en las Pinaleo Mountains que en los bosques de pino ponderosa donde las ardillas de Abert son encontradas tpicamente, o ambos.
3672716|Spool-and-line tracking is an innovative and inexpensive way to record the movements of small mammals in a variety of habitats, and could have important applications for conservation related studies. However, the potential negative effects of the method have not been investigated. We document the effects of spool-and-line tracking on short-term change in body mass, recapture, and survival probability of banner-tailed kangaroo rats, Dipodomys spectabilis, in southeastern Arizona. We attached spools to D. spectabilis adults of both sexes during 3 y of varying environmental conditions, with total sample sizes of 90 experimental and 81 control animals. We did not attach spools to females in late pregnancy, and, to avoid entanglement, we did not attach spools to kangaroo rats located within 25 m of each other on the same night. We found no significant negative effects of spool attachment on body mass, survival, or recapture probability in either sex in any year. /// Rastreo de carrete y cordel es un mtodo innovador y econmico para registrar los desplazamientos de mamferos pequeos en una variedad de hbitats, y podra tener una aplicacin importante en estudios relacionados con la conservacin. Sin embargo, los potenciales efectos negativos de ste mtodo no han sido investigados. Documentamos los efectos de rastreo de carrete y cordel en cambios a corto plazo en la masa corporal, en la recaptura y en la supervivencia de las ratas canguro de cola de bandera, Dipodomys spectabilis, en el sudeste de Arizona. Sujetamos un cordel a adultos de ambos sexos de D. spectabilis durante 3 aos de condiciones ambientales variadas, con una muestra total de 90 animales experimentales y 81 animales control. No sujetamos un cordel a hembras grvidas avanzadas o a ratas canguro localizadas dentro de 25 m de distancia la una de la otra en la misma noche para evitar enredo. No encontramos ningn efecto negativo significativo en la sujecin del cordel en la masa del cuerpo, ni en la supervivencia o en la recaptura, en ninguno de los sexos en ninguno de los aos.
3672717|Morphometric variables were analyzed for 119 specimens from 28 localities in New Mexico and Texas to determine whether they can be used to distinguish between individuals of known identity of Perognathus flavus and P. merriami. Multivariate analysis of variance suggested that morphological characters from individuals of these 2 species differed significantly. Discriminant functions analysis produced 5 cranial and 2 external characters (bullar length, mastoid breadth, interorbital breadth, interparietal breadth, interparietal length, tail length, and hind foot length) that differed significantly in these 2 species. A subsequent classification analysis of 55 specimens from 21 localities was performed to test the utility of these characters in identifying unknown individuals, and 87% of the individuals were identified correctly. /// Variables morfomtricas fueron analizadas en 119 especimenes provenientes de 28 localidades en Nuevo Mxico y Texas para determinar si hay alguna diferencia entre individuos de identidad comprobada de Perognathus flavus y P. merriami. El anlisis multivariable sugiri que las caractersticas morfolgicas de individuos pertenecientes a estas 2 especies difirieron significativamente. El anlisis de funciones discriminantes provey 5 caractersticas del crneo y 2 externas (largo de bula, ancho mastoideo, ancho interorbital, ancho interparietal, largo interparietal, longitud de cola, y longitud de pie) que difirieron significativamente en estas 2 especies. Un anlisis subsiguiente de clasificacin de 55 especimenes de 21 localidades fue realizado para probar la utilidad de estas caractersticas para identificar individuos desconocidos, y result en la identificacin correcta de 87% de los individuos.
3672718|Below normal precipitation during June 2001 through June 2002 was recorded at Chaparral Wildlife Management Area, near Catarina, Texas. This drought was followed by a 13-mo period (July 2002 through July 2003) of above average precipitation, providing an opportunity to examine the response of 5 species of rodents to drought conditions. Comparison of the number of unique individuals captured during the drought to the post-drought revealed a significant increase in the total number of individuals (approximately 500%) and in the number of individuals per species. A 3-mo lag time was observed between the end of the drought and the onset of population recovery. Although an increase in population size was anticipated as precipitation patterns returned to normal, the magnitude and rapidity of the recovery exceeded predictions and documented the resilience of rodents to adverse climatic conditions. /// Precipitacin ms baja de lo normal fue registrada de junio del 2001 a junio del 2002 en el Chaparral Wildlife Management Area, cerca de Catarina, Texas. ste perodo de seca fue seguido por un perodo de 13 meses (julio del 2002 a Julio del 2003) en el cual la precipitacin fue ms alta de lo normal, proveyendo la oportunidad de examinar la reaccin de 5 especies de roedores a las condiciones de seca. Comparacin del nmero de individuos nuevos capturados durante la seca a despus de la seca revel un incremento significativo en el nmero total de individuos (aproximadamente 500%) y en el nmero de individuos por especie. Un perodo de espera de 3 meses fue observado entre el fin de la seca y el comienzo de la recuperacin de la poblacin. Aunque el incremento en el tamao de la poblacin era anticipado con el regreso a la normalidad de los niveles de precipitacin, la magnitud y rapidez de la recuperacin excedieron predicciones, lo cual es prueba de la resistencia de los roedores a las condiciones climticas adversas.
3672719|The range of the single-site endemic cave crayfish, Cambarus tartarus, is expanded to an additional cave system (Long's Cave), but is still restricted to the Spavinaw Creek watershed within Delaware County, Oklahoma. Censuses of these 2 populations in 2001 and 2004 produced record high counts: 17 individuals in January-Stansbury Cave and 63 in Long's Cave. January-Stansbury Cave, with at least 52 species of animals, is the most species-rich subterranean habitat in Oklahoma to date. Conservation activities are summarized. Cambarus tartarus remains extremely vulnerable to degraded habitat quality, and further protection is recommended. /// La distribucin del camarn de agua dulce Cambarus tartarus, endmica de un slo sitio, se extiende a un sistema de cuevas adicionales (Long's Cave), pero contina restringida a la cuenca Spavinaw Creek en el condado de Delaware, Oklahoma. Los censos de estas dos poblaciones en el 2001 y 2004 produjeron records altos de conteos: 17 individuos en January-Stansberry Cave y 63 en Long's Cave. January-Stansberry Cave, con al menos 52 especies de animales, es la cueva ms rica en especies en Oklahoma hasta la fecha. Se resumen actividades de conservacin. Cambarus tartarus permanece extremadamente vulnerable a la degradacin de la calidad del hbitat, y se recomienda ms proteccin.
3672720|We provide complete, updated data on the status of the endangered black-capped vireo (Vireo atricapilla) and its habitat on Fort Hood Military Reservation, Texas. We searched 74,880 ha of Fort Hood during spring and summer 2002 and 2003, noting the locations of potential habitat patches and vireos. We mapped 6,971 ha of potential habitat, 90% of which was occupied. Such high occupancy suggests that vireos have colonized most of the available vireo habitat on Fort Hood. We detected 1,846 male vireos. The area of occupied habitat and number of male vireos both exceed goals set in the Endangered Species Management Plan for Fort Hood. Assuming that half of the male vireos had mates, Fort Hood alone would exceed the previously published recovery goal of 750 breeding pairs for the Lampasas Cut Plains set in the recovery plan for the black-capped vireo. /// Proveemos informacin completa y reciente sobre el estado del ave en peligro vireo capa negra (Vireo atricapilla) y su hbitat en Fort Hood Military Reservation, en Texas. Conducimos muestreos en 74,880 ha de Fort Hood durante la primavera y el verano del 2002 y 2003, y registramos las localizaciones de los vireos y tambin reas de hbitat potencial. Trazamos mapas de 6,971 ha de hbitat potencial, 90% del cual estaba ocupado. Un nivel de ocupacin tan alto indica que los vireos han colonizado la mayora del hbitat disponible en Fort Hood. Detectamos 1,846 vireos machos. La cantidad de hbitat ocupado y el nmero de vireos machos exceden las metas propuestas por el Endangered Species Management Plan de Fort Hood. Asumiendo que la mitad de los machos vireos tuvo hembras, slo Fort Hood podra exceder la previamente publicada meta de recuperacin de 750 parejas maduras en Lampasas Cut Plains prescrita en el plan para la recuperacin del vireo gorra negra.
3672721|Habitat preferences were determined for a guild of surface-diving waterbirds wintering in Redfish Bay, Texas: common loon (Gavia immer), eared grebe (Podiceps nigricollis), piedbilled grebe (Podilymbus podiceps), double-crested cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus), red-breasted merganser (Mergus serrator), and American coot (Fulica americana). American white pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) also was included because it occupies habitats similar to those of the surface divers. Between November 2001 and April 2002, the locations of 4,232 surface divers and American white pelicans using aquatic habitats in Redfish Bay were recorded and entered into a GIS that included a National Wetlands Inventory layer. Bird habitat preferences-avoidances were determined using a test based on Bonferroni's inequality. American coots, American white pelicans, and pied-billed grebes preferred shallower estuarine subtidal seagrass beds, whereas common loons, double-crested cormorants, and eared grebes preferred deeper estuarine subtidal unconsolidated bay bottom. Red-breasted mergansers showed no habitat preferences. /// Se determinaron las preferencias de hbitat para un gremio invernal de aves acuticas de buceo de superficie en Redfish Bay, Texas: el colimbo grande (Gavia immer), el zampulln cuellinegro (Podiceps nigricollis), el zampulln de pico grueso (Podilymbus podiceps), el cormorn orejudo (Phalacrocorax auritus), la serreta mediana (Mergus serrator) y la gallareta de pico blanco (Fulica americana). El pelcano blanco americano (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) tambin se incluy ya que ocupa hbitats similares a los de aves de buceo de superficie. Entre el noviembre del 2001 y abril del 2002, las localidades de 4,232 aves acuticas de buceo de superficie y del pelcano blanco americano usando los hbitats acuticos en el rea de estudio fueron registrados en el SIG que incluy un estrato de National Wetlands Inventory. Para determinar la preferencia-evasin de las aves por hbitat, se us una prueba basada en la desigualdad de Bonferroni. El zampulln de cuello grueso, la gallareta de pico blanco y el pelcano blanco americano prefirieron aguas poco profundas, estuarinas y submareales, mientras que el colimbo grande, el cormorn orejudo, y el zampulln cuellinegro prefirieron partes ms profundas estuarinas submareales de sedimentos no consolidados. La serreta mediana no mostr preferencias por ninguno de los hbitats.
3672722|We identified 13 specimens of Preble's shrew (Sorex preblei) and 5 specimens of the Inyo shrew (Sorex tenellus) from Lassen Volcanic National Park (LVNP), California. These records represent the first captures of either species from LVNP and substantially extend the ranges of both. This is the first recorded instance of these 2 species occurring in sympatry. /// Identificamos 13 especimenes de las musaraas Sorex preblei y 5 especimenes de Sorex tenellus del Parque Nacional Volcnico Lassen (LVNP), California. Estos registros representan las primeras capturas de ambas especies de LVNP y extienden considerablemente la distribucin para ambas. Este es el primer caso registrado en que las 2 especies se encuentran en simpatra.
3672723|We examined a specimen of Neotoma nelsoni collected in the Mexican state of Puebla, which represents the third known record for the species and the first one for the state. The distribution of the species is restricted to the eastern slopes of the volcanoes Pico de Orizaba and Cofre de Perote, mainly within the cloud forest. The specimen of N. nelsoni has external and cranial characteristics that are different from other species of the genus. The distribution of the species is small, the sizes of populations are small, and the populations exist in geographic isolation. None are located within legally protected areas, which presents problems for the conservation of the species. /// Examinamos un ejemplar de Neotoma nelsoni colectado en el estado de Puebla, Mxico, que representa el tercer registro de la especie y el primero para el estado. La distribucin de la especie se restringe a la ladera este de los volcanes Pico de Orizaba y Cofre de Perote, principalmente en el bosque mesfilo de montaa. Neotoma nelsoni presenta caractersticas externas y craneales que la hacen distinguible de las otras especies del gnero. La distribucin de la especie es pequea, los tamaos poblacionales son bajos, y las poblaciones existen en aislamiento geogrfico. Ninguna est localizada dentro de reas protegidas, lo que presenta problemas para la conservacin de la especie.
3672724|We obtained new records of the Tehuantepec jackrabbit, Lepus flavigularis, in the state of Oaxaca, Mxico. The records represent 3 new populations of L. flavigularis in the southern part of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. The total area where the new records of L. flavigularis occurred is 67 km<sup>2</sup>. It is necessary to conduct additional studies to obtain details of the actual distribution of the endangered L. flavigularis and recommend actions for its conservation. /// Encontramos nuevos registros de la presencia de la liebre de Tehuantepec, Lepus flavigularis, en el estado de Oaxaca, Mxico. Los registros representan 3 nuevas poblaciones de L. flavigularis en la parte sur del Istmo de Tehuantepec. El rea total de ocupacin de los nuevos registros de L. flavigularis es de 67 km<sup>2</sup>. Es necesario realizar investigaciones adicionales para definir a detalle la distribucin actual de la especie en peligro L. flavigularis y recomendar acciones para su conservacin.
3672725|We observed an attack by a bobcat (Lynx rufus) on a cottontail rabbit (Sylvilagus) that involved stealthy approach by the cat for >1 h, followed by a 12.3-s chase covering 116.0 m for the cat and 128.4 m for the rabbit. During the chase, the route of the cat from starting point to kill site was more direct than the semi-circular route of the rabbit. Stride lengths for the cat and total distance covered by the chase were longer than those previously reported for bobcats. /// Observamos cmo atac un lince (Lynx rufus) a un conejo cola de algodn (Silvilagus). El lince se aproxim cautelosamente por un poco ms de una hora seguidamente persiguiendo al conejo por 12.3 segundos, cubriendo 116.0 m para el lince y 128.4 m para el conejo cola de algodn. Durante el ataque, la ruta del lince desde el punto de comienzo hasta el sitio donde mat al conejo fue ms directo que la ruta semicircular del conejo. La distancia de los pasos del lince y la distancia total cubierta para la caza, fueron ms largas que aquellas reportadas previamente para los linces.
3672726|Coyotes (Canis latrans) are common in urban areas throughout North America. However, their urban diets have been studied rarely, possibly because tools to discriminate coyote feces (i.e., scats) from those of domestic dogs have not been available. We used molecular techniques to discriminate between scats from coyotes and domestic dogs. Our objective was to assess field accuracy in identifying coyote scat from dog scat. We collected and analyzed 34 scats (classified as coyote scat) via DNA analysis to determine whether they were deposited by coyotes. Ten scats classified in the field as coyote were from domestic dogs. We could not distinguish between coyote and dog scats in Tucson simply by observing scats. The role that available food items play in feeding strategies of coyotes needs to be examined thoroughly to fully understand their ecology and relationship to dogs and humans in urban areas. DNA analysis used for scat identification provides a mechanism to distinguish canid scats. /// Los coyotes (Canis latrans) son comunes en las reas urbanas a lo largo de toda Norteamrica. Sin embargo, sus dietas urbanas han sido estudiadas raramente, posiblemente porque las herramientas para distinguir entre las heces coyotes y las de los perros domsticos no estaban disponibles. Usamos tcnicas de biologa molecular para distinguir entre las heces de coyotes y las de perros domsticos. Nuestro objetivo fue de determinar la exactitud en identificar las heces de coyotes y de perros en el campo. Recogimos y analizamos 34 heces (clasificadas como heces de coyotes) usando anlisis de ADN para determinar si las heces fueron depositadas por coyotes. Diez heces clasificadas en el campo como heces de coyote provinieron de perros domsticos. Simplemente observando heces en el campo, no fue posible distinguir entre las heces de coyotes y las de perros en Tucson. El papel que desempean los artculos alimenticios disponibles en las estrategias de alimentacin de los coyotes necesita ser examinada a fondo para entender completamente la ecologa de los coyotes y su relacin con los perros y los seres humanos en las reas urbanas. El anlisis de ADN usado para la identificacin de las heces proporciona un mecanismo para distinguir heces en la familia Canidae.
3672561|Streams in the southeastern USA are commonly affected by streamside disturbance. We investigated the effects of a small-scale clearing (associated with a pipeline crossing) on a third-order stream in southwestern Louisiana by sampling habitat, water chemistry, stream microbes, and benthic and wood-dwelling macroinvertebrates in fall 2002 and spring 2003. We selected 3 locations for sampling, one in a forested section of stream 100 m upstream of upstream of a clearing, one within the clearing, and one in a forested section of stream 100 m downstream from the clearing. We detected significantly higher temperature and fecal coliform counts and significantly lower dissolved oxygen, specific conductance, pool-riffle ratio, coarse woody debris, fine organic detritus, and heterotrophic plate counts in the clearing location compared to the upstream and downstream locations. Depth and current velocity did not differ significantly among sampling locations. Despite differences in stream characteristics, we detected only a single statistical difference: Bezzia (Insecta: Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) was significantly lower in density in the clearing location. We conclude that the observed differences in stream characteristics were not biologically substantial enough to noticeably alter composition of the stream macroinvertebrate community. However, multiple small-scale disturbances that increase fragmentation in a watershed would be more likely have significant negative affects on macroinvertebrate community diversity. /// Riachuelos en el sureste de los EEUU son comnmente afectados por perturbaciones en sus orillas y partes laterales terrestres. Investigamos los efectos de una talada de rboles a pequea escala (asociada con el cruce de lneas de gas) en un riachuelo del tercer orden en el suroeste de Louisiana muestreando el hbitat, la qumica del agua, los microbios del riachuelo y macroinvertebrados bnticos y los que habitan en madera en el otoo del 2002 y en la primavera del 2003. Seleccionamos tres reas de muestro, una en una seccin forestada del riachuelo a unos 100 m ro arriba de un rea talada, una adentro del rea talada y una en una seccin forestada a unos 100 m ro abajo del rea talada. Detectamos valores significativamente mayores en temperatura y coliforme fecal y valores significativamente menores de oxgeno disuelto, conductividad especfica, proporcin de charcas a corrientes material leoso grueso, material orgnico fino y conteos heterotrficos de platos bacteriales en el rea talada en comparacin a las reas no taladas. La profundidad del agua y la velocidad de la corriente no difirieron significativamente entre las reas de muestro. A pesar de las diferentes caractersticas del riachuelo, detectamos una sola diferencia estadstica: Bezzia (Insecta: Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) fue significativamente menos abundante en el sitio talado. Concluimos que las diferencias observadas en las caractersticas del riachuelo no fueron biolgicamente suficientes para alterar notablemente la composicin de la comunidad macroinvertebrada del riachuelo. Sin embargo, mltiples perturbaciones a pequea escala que incrementan la fragmentacin en una cuenca probablemente tendrn efectos significativamente negativos en la diversidad de la comunidad de macroinvertebrados.
3672562|Although the ecology of the Gulf Coast waterdog, Necturus beyeri, has been studied in Louisiana, there is no information on eastern Texas populations. We document the seasonal activity and individual movements of this species in Smith County, Texas. Minnow traps were placed at 10-m intervals in Gilley Creek from 1996 to 1999 (20 total) and in Hill Creek in 2002-2003 (75 total) and checked once per week. Animals captured were sexed, measured, weighed, and tagged with PIT tags. Seasonal activity was determined from the number captured per month, and individual movements were based on distances moved between captures. Gulf Coast waterdogs in eastern Texas were active from October to March, generally moving only short distances. Occasionally, long distance movements were made, but these animals often returned to the initial capture site. Our results suggest that Gulf Coast waterdogs in eastern Texas behave much like those in southern Louisiana. /// A pesar de que la ecologa de Necturus beyeri a sido estudiada en Louisiana, no hay informacin de las poblaciones del este de Texas. Documentamos la actividad estacional y los movimientos individuales de esta especie en el condado de Smith en Texas. Se colocaron trampas para pececitos a intervalos de 10 m en Gilley Creek desde 1996 hasta 1999 (20 en total) y en Hill Creek en 2002-2003 (75 en total) y fueron revisadas una vez por semana. Se determin el sexo de los animales capturados, las medidas, el peso, y se marcaron individualmente usando los sensores PIT. La actividad estacional fue determinada por el nmero de capturas mensuales y los movimientos individuales se basaron en distancias recorridas entre capturas. Necturus beyeri en el este de Texas estuvieron activos de octubre a marzo, generalmente recorriendo slo distancias cortas. Ocasionalmente recorrieron largas distancias pero luego volvieron al lugar de la captura inicial. Nuestros resultados sugieren que los N. beyeri en el este de Texas presentan un comportamiento similar a los del sur de Louisiana.
3672563|Male and female reproductive cycles are described for Sceloporus melanorhinus in Chamela, Jalisco, Mexico. Both males and females reached sexual maturity at 62 mm snout-vent length. Testes mass of adult males began to increase in March, reached maximum size in July, and began to decrease in August and September, reaching minimum size in October and November. Testes size was associated with increasing photoperiod, but not with temperature or precipitation. Enlarged vitellogenic follicles first appeared in May, and oviductal eggs were found from June to September. Vitellogenesis, follicular growth, and egg production were correlated with increasing photoperiod, temperature, and precipitation. Females produced a single clutch during the reproductive season. Mean clutch size based on oviductal eggs was 7.7 (range = 5 to 9). Clutch size was not correlated with female snout-vent length. /// Se describen los ciclos reproductivos de machos y hembras de Sceloporus melanorhinus en Chamela, Jalisco, Mxico. Los machos y las hembras alcanzaron la madurez sexual a los 62 mm de longitud hocico-cloaca (LHC). La masa de los testculos de los adultos machos comenz a incrementar en tamao en marzo, alcanz el mximo en julio, y comenz a decrecer en agosto y septiembre, alcanzando el tamao mnimo en octubre y noviembre. El tamao testicular estuvo asociado con el incremento del fotoperiodo, pero no con la temperatura o precipitacin. Los primeros folculos vitelognicos alargados aparecieron en mayo, y los huevos oviductales de junio a septiembre. La vitelognesis, crecimiento folicular, y produccin de huevos estuvieron correlacionados con el incremento en el fotoperiodo, temperatura, y precipitacin. Las hembras produjeron una sola puesta durante la estacin reproductiva. El tamao medio de la puesta basado en los huevos oviductales fue de 7.7 (intervalo = 5 a 9). El tamao de la puesta no estuvo correlacionado con la LHC de la hembra.
3672564|We studied the reproductive cycles of 350 male and female Sceloporus variabilis from coastal areas of the Gulf of Mexico, Mexico, that exhibited continuous reproduction. Males reached sexual maturity at 45 mm snout-vent length (SVL), whereas females reached sexual maturity at 44 mm SVL. Testicular mass varied among months. Testes began to increase in size during April, with maximum sizes reached from May to July. Maximal testicular growth was positively correlated with increasing temperature and photoperiod, but not with precipitation. Females contained vitellogenic follicles and oviductal eggs throughout the year, although maximal egg production occurred from June to January. Forty-two females (40%) had vitellogenic follicles and oviductal eggs simultaneously. Mean clutch size, based on vitellogenic follicles, was similar (mean = 3.7  0.17 SE) to that observed by counting oviductal eggs (mean = 3.7  0.10 SE). Females with a SVL  51.5 mm  0.91 SE had at least 2 clutches. Clutch size was correlated with female SVL. Differences in reproduction found in this study compared with other populations of the same species might be explained by environmental differences at the study sites. /// Estudiamos los ciclos reproductivos de 350 machos y hembras de Sceloporus variabilis de las reas costeras del Golfo de Mxico, Mxico, que exhibieron reproduccin continua. Los machos alcanzaron la madurez sexual a los 45 mm de longitud hocico-cloaca (LHC), mientras que las hembras alcanzaron la madurez sexual a los 44 mm. La masa testicular vari entre los meses. Los testculos comenzaron a incrementar en tamao durante abril, con un tamao mximo alcanzado de mayo a julio. El mximo crecimiento testicular estuvo correlacionado positivamente con el incremento en temperatura y fotoperiodo, pero no con la precipitacin. Las hembras presentaron folculos vitelognicos y huevos oviductales a lo largo del ao, aunque la mxima produccin de huevos ocurri de junio a enero. Cuarenta y dos hembras (40%) presentaron folculos vitelognicos y huevos oviductales simultneamente. La media del tamao de la puesta, basada en los folculos vitelognicos, fue similar (media = 3.7  0.17 EE) a la observada por el conteo de los huevos oviductales (media = 3.7  0.10 EE). Las hembras con una LHC  51.5 mm  0.91 EE tuvieron por lo menos dos puestas. El tamao de la puesta estuvo correlacionado con la LHC de la hembra. Las diferencias encontradas en la reproduccin en este estudio, comparado con otras poblaciones de la misma especie, pueden ser explicadas por las diferencias ambientales de los sitios de estudio.
3672565|We counted birds monthly from October through April of 1999-2000 and 2000-2001 on regularly grazed and rested (since 1973) semiarid grassland of central New Mexico. Horned larks (Eremophila alpestris) and chestnut-collared longspurs (Calcarius ornatus) accounted for 66% and 10% of all birds detected, respectively. We examined variation in counts of these species relative to grazing history, site, and vegetation characteristics. We used an information-theoretic approach to evaluate a set of 11 candidate models to determine which best described the variation in abundance of horned larks and chestnut-collared longspurs. There was little agreement between models for the 2 species or the 2 years. While grazing was a factor in the most likely models of abundance in the 1999-2000 sampling season for both bird species, this factor was not an important variable in explaining abundance in 2000-2001. These results suggest that abundance of horned larks and chestnut-collared longspurs are not as closely tied to grazing use during the non-breeding season in the semiarid grasslands of the northern Chihuahuan Desert, which contrasts with literature from breeding sites in the shortgrass prairie. /// Contamos las aves cada mes de octubre a abril de 1999-2000 y 2000-2001 en pastizales semiridos de Nuevo Mxico central que fueron pastoreados con regularidad o sin pastorear (desde 1973). Las alondras cornudas (Eremophila alpestris) y los escribanos de collar (Calcarius ornatus) fueron 66% y 10% de las aves vistas, respectivamente. Examinamos la variacin en los conteos de estas especies con relacin a la historia del pastoreo, el sitio y las caractersticas vegetales. Usamos un enfoque informacin-terico para evaluar un grupo de 11 modelos para determinar cul describi mejor la variacin en la abundancia de las alondras cornudas y de los escribanos de collar. Hubo poco acuerdo entre los modelos de las dos especies o los dos aos. Aunque el pastoreo fue un factor para los modelos ms probables de abundancia durante la temporada de la muestra 1999-2000 para ambas especies de aves, este factor no fue una variable importante en explicar la abundancia en 2000-2001. Estos resultados sugieren que la abundancia de las alondras cornudas y de los escribanos de collar no se vincula con el pastoreo durante la temporada no reproductiva en los pastizales semiridos en el norte del desierto Chihuahua, y esto contrasta con la literatura proveniente de los sitios reproductivos en la pradera de hierba corta.
3672567|We monitored nest success of mountain plovers (Charadrius montanus) relative to distance from the nearest anthropogenic edges, such as fence lines, roads, and perimeters of crop fields, in 2003 and 2004. We located and observed 163 mountain plover nests in eastern Colorado (USA). At least one egg hatched in 81 of 163 nests. Successful nests occurred at a mean distance of 93.94 m  8.87 SE, whereas unsuccessful nests were located 84.39 m  8.95 SE from the nearest edge. Based on our model selection criteria (<tex-math>$\text{AIC}_{\text{c}}$</tex-math>), nests farther from edges were not necessarily more successful than those closer to edges. The logistic regression coefficient for edge effects (0.13  0.12 SE) suggests that nests farther from edges are more successful. However, the standard error for the edge coefficient was large and the 95% confidence interval (-0.08, 0.35) encompassed zero, suggesting nest success was independent of distance from an anthropomorphic edge. We conclude that phenomena determining nest success of mountain plovers cannot be attributed to the single factor of anthropogenic edges in this fragmented landscape. /// Observamos el xito de nidificacin del chorlo llanero (Charadrius montanus) con relacin a la distancia de los bordes antropognicos tales como cercas, caminos, y lmites de campos sembrados en 2003 y 2004. Localizamos y observamos 163 nidos del chorlo en el este de Colorado (USA). Por lo menos un huevo eclosion en 81 de 163 nidos. Los nidos exitosos ocurrieron a una distancia media de 93.94 m  8.87 EE, mientras que los nidos fracasados fueron localizados a 84.39 m  8.95 EE del borde ms cercano. Basado en nuestros criterios de seleccin de modelos (<tex-math>$\text{AIC}_{\text{c}}$</tex-math>), los nidos ms lejos de los bordes no fueron necesariamente ms exitosos que los ms cercanos a los bordes. El coeficiente de regresin logstico para efectos de borde (0.13  0.12 EE) sugiere que los nidos ms lejos de bordes son ms exitosos. Sin embargo, el error estndar para el coeficiente de borde fue grande y el intervalo de confianza del 95% (-0.08, 0.35) incluy el cero, sugiriendo que el xito del nido fue independiente de la distancia al borde antropognico. Concluimos que los fenmenos que determinan el xito de nidificacin del chorlo no pueden ser atribuidos slo al factor antropognico de los bordes en este paisaje fragmentado.
3672568|We explored habitat use in terms of vegetation structure and potential forage availability for mountain plovers (Charadrius montanus) in Park County, Colorado. We quantified the percentage cover of bare ground, percentage cover of shrubs (Chrysothamnus viscidiflorus), linear distance to nearest shrub, arthropod biomass, and grasshopper density for 102 plots of 1,963 m<sup>2</sup>, 51 of which were occupied by plovers and 51 of which were selected randomly within previously-classified potential habitat. We modeled the probability of habitat use by plovers based on these measurements. We further subdivided the occupied plots to model probability of habitat use by adults with broods as compared with use by pre-nesting and post-nesting adults. Percentage of bare ground and probability of habitat use for adults with broods were related inversely, but not so for adults without broods. Grasshopper density was positively related to probability of habitat use by adults without broods, whereas proximity to nearest shrub was negatively related. We propose that habitat use by plovers in South Park is influenced by the amount of available shrub-grassland edge habitat and the availability of forage. /// Investigamos el uso de hbitat en trminos de la estructura vegetal y la disponibilidad potencial de forraje para los chorlos llaneros (Charadrius montanus) en el condado de Park en Colorado. Cuantificamos el porcentaje de cobertura de suelo desnudo, el porcentaje de cobertura arbustiva (Chrysothamnus viscidiflorus), la distancia lineal al arbusto ms cercano, la biomasa artrpoda, y la densidad de los chapulines en 102 parcelas de 1,963 m<sup>2</sup>, de las cuales 51 fueron ocupadas por los chorlitos y 51 fueron seleccionadas aleatoriamente dentro del hbitat potencial segn una previa clasificacin. Basados en estas mediciones, hicimos un modelo de la probabilidad del uso de hbitat por los chorlitos. Adems subdividimos las parcelas ocupadas para predecir la probabilidad del uso de hbitat por los adultos con cras comparada con el uso por adultos preanidadores y pos-anidadores. El porcentaje del suelo desnudo y la probabilidad del uso de hbitat por los adultos con cras fueron relacionados inversamente, pero no as para los adultos sin cras. La densidad de los chapulines fue relacionada positivamente con la probabilidad del uso de hbitat por los adultos sin cras, mientras que la proximidad al arbusto ms cercano fue relacionada negativamente. Proponemos que el uso de hbitat por los chorlitos en South Park est influido por la cantidad disponible del borde arbustivo-pastizal y por la disponibilidad de forraje.
3672569|The cave swallow (Petrochelidon fulva) was first discovered breeding in caves and sink-holes in Texas in 1915. Within the last 50 years, it has colonized new breeding sites in western and southern Texas, and colonization has been attributed to the presence of highway culverts and bridges. We examined published observations and breeding bird survey (BBS) data, and surveyed selected culverts in western and southeastern Texas to determine the rate and extent of colonization by cave swallows. From 1957 to 1999, the breeding range of the cave swallow increased by approximately 898%, with an average annual rate of increase of 6% per year. Based on BBS data, cave swallow populations are increasing 10.8% per year, and our survey indicated that cave swallows occupied >90% of the culverts surveyed in western Texas. Range expansion is likely to continue, and additional data are needed to determine how an expanding cave swallow population might affect local barn swallow populations. /// La golondrina pueblera (Petrochelidon fulva) se descubri por primera vez reproducindose en cuevas y hoyos en Texas en 1915. En los ltimos cincuenta aos ha colonizado nuevos lugares de crianza en el oeste y en el sur de Texas y la colonizacin se ha atribuido a la presencia de las alcantarillas y puentes de las carreteras. Examinamos observaciones ya publicadas, ms datos de muestreos de pjaros en reproduccin (BBS), y muestreamos alcantarillas en el oeste y sudeste de Texas para determinar la proporcin y extensin de la colonizacin de las golondrinas puebleras. Desde 1957 a 1999 las golondrinas puebleras han incrementado la extensin de su zona de crianza en un 898% aproximadamente, con un incremento promedio anual del 6%. Segn los datos BBS, las poblaciones de las golondrinas puebleras se estn incrementando en un 10.8% por ao y nuestro muestreo indic que las golondrinas puebleras ocuparon >90% de las alcantarillas revisadas en el oeste de Texas. La extensin de su rango es probable que contine y se necesitan datos adicionales para determinar si la expansin de la poblacin de las golondrinas puebleras puede afectar las poblaciones locales de las golondrinas tijereta.
3672570|Although the San Joaquin kit fox (Vulpes macrotis mutica) has been a federally protected subspecies since 1967, current information on its status throughout much of its historical range is lacking. Since 1983, only 5 surveys have been conducted, and a recent recovery plan emphasized the need for better information on the status of this subspecies. Between 2001 and 2003, we attempted to obtain new information on this kit fox on specific public and private properties in 8 counties in the San Joaquin Valley, California, where knowledge of its current status was limited or poorly understood. We used a trained detection-dog to survey for kit fox, red fox (V. vulpes), and gray fox (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) scats on selected properties, followed by species identification based on genetic analysis of DNA extracted from all scats collected. Despite extensive survey efforts (539 km), kit fox was only detected in Merced County, in the area of Santa Nella, where a small kit fox population was previously documented. Red fox scats were located in Alameda, San Joaquin, and Merced counties, and gray fox scats were located in Fresno County. Our results suggest that if kit foxes are present on the properties surveyed, they either occur at extremely low densities, rendering detection difficult, or only occur intermittently in these areas. In striking contrast, our previous surveys conducted with the same method in the southern part of the range found large numbers of kit fox scats in various areas, particularly in Kern and San Luis Obispo counties. We recommend that future conservation plans focus on preserving additional habitat in areas where kit foxes are relatively abundant, specifically western Kern County and the Ciervo-Panoche region. /// A pesar de que la zorrita de San Joaqun (Vulpes macrotis mutica) ha sido una subespecie protegida bajo estatutos federales desde 1967, no existe informacin actualizada sobre su distribucin a travs de su rango histrico de distribucin. Desde 1983, slo se han llevado a cabo 5 muestreos, y un plan de recuperacin reciente enfatiz la necesidad de disponer de mejor informacin sobre la situacin de esta subespecie. Entre 2001 y 2003 intentamos conseguir nueva informacin de estas zorritas en propiedades pblicas y privadas en 8 condados del Valle de San Joaqun, California, donde se tena conocimiento muy pobre o limitado de su situacin actual. Utilizamos un perro entrenado para detectar heces de zorritas de San Joaqun, zorras rojas (V. vulpes) y zorras grises (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) en terrenos seleccionados, seguido por la identificacin de especies basada en anlisis genticos del ADN extrado de todas las heces recogidas. A pesar de una investigacin minuciosa (539 km), la presencia de zorritas de San Joaqun solamente fue detectada en el condado de Merced, en el rea de Santa Nella, donde una poblacin pequea de zorritas ya haba sido registrada. Heces de zorras rojas fueron localizadas en los condados de Alameda, San Joaqun y Merced, y heces de zorras grises en el condado de Fresno. Nuestros resultados sugieren que si las zorritas estn presentes en las reas investigadas, stas se encuentran, ya sea, en densidades sumamente bajas, haciendo su deteccin difcil, o slo intermitentemente. En contraste, en nuestras investigaciones conducidas anteriormente usando el mismo mtodo en la parte sur de su rango de distribucin, encontramos grandes cantidades de heces de zorritas de San Joaqun en varias reas, particularmente en los condados de Kern y de San Luis Obispo. Recomendamos que los planes futuros de conservacin se enfoquen en la preservacin de ms hbitat en reas donde las zorritas son relativamente abundantes, especficamente en el oeste del condado de Kern y en la regin de Ciervo-Panoche.
3672571|We found that the number of doe pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) seen on summer surveys in 3 areas in the Southwest was related to midsummer drought indices, and that annual variations in doe mortality might be more important in determining population levels in dry years than fawn recruitment. If carrying capacity is indeed limited by a lack of nutritious forage during dry years, pronghorn managers might want to consider reducing interspecific and intraspecific competition during such periods and forgoing predator control and translocation efforts. /// Encontramos que el nmero de berrendos femeninos (Antilocapra americana) vistos en muestreos de verano en 3 reas en el Suroeste se relacion a los ndices de la sequa de verano, y que las variaciones anuales en la mortalidad de las hembras pueden ser ms importantes para fijar el tamao poblacional en aos secos que el reclutamiento de las cras. Si el tamao poblacional est de verdad limitado por la falta de forraje nutritivo durante aos secos, los administradores de los berrendos quizs quieran considerar reducir la competencia interespecfica e intraespecifica durante esos perodos y dejar el control de depredadores y esfuerzos de traslado.
3672572|We recovered Pleistocene fossils from a lava-dammed river deposit along the Ro de Moctezuma in northeastern Sonora, at 2941N, 10939W, and 605 m elevation. Today the region is semiarid, with a foothills thornscrub community. The impoundment that resulted from the lava dam produced a short-lived marsh with an adjacent savanna. The extraordinary fauna is both diverse and rich, and includes ostracods, mollusks, fish, amphibians, turtles, a crocodilian, snakes, lizards, birds, and mammals, many with tropical affinities today. Most of the animals are either extralimital to the setting today or extinct. The recovery of Bison dictates a Rancholabrean Land Mammal Age for the fauna; a preliminary 40Ar/39Ar age suggests that the deposit is between 570,000 and 310,000 years old. The occurrence of cf. Crocodylus acutus (a crocodilian; generic assignment uncertain) and Pampatherium, the giant armadillo, is unique in the northern interior Sonora setting. We speculate that a well-developed riparian corridor along the Ro Yaqui, from the Gulf of California to the mountain-valley setting at Trapa, permitted the animals with tropical affinities to extend 350 km inland. /// Recobramos fsiles Pleistocenos de un depsito de un ro represado por lava a lo largo del Ro de Moctezuma en el noreste de Sonora, a 2941'N, 10939'W, y a 605 m de altura. Hoy la regin es semirida con matorral desrtica. El encierro que produjo la represa de lava result en un rea pantanosa de poca duracin con una sabana adyacente. La fauna extraordinaria es rica y diversa, e incluye ostracodos, moluscos, peces, anfibios, tortugas, un cocodrilo, serpientes, lagartijas, pjaros, y mamferos, muchos de ellos con afinidades tropicales hoy. La mayora de los animales estn inexistentes en este ambiente hoy o extintos. La recuperacin de Bison dicta una Edad Mamfera Terrena Rancholabreana para la fauna; una edad preliminar 40Ar/39Ar sugiere que el depsito es de 570,000 y 310,000 aos atrs. La presencia de cf. Crocodylus acutus (un cocodrilo; de asignacin genrica incierta) y Pampatherium, el armadillo gigante, es nico en el marco interior norteo de Sonora. Especulamos que un pasillo ribereo bien desarrollado a lo largo del Ro Yaqui, desde el Golfo de California hasta el valle en Trapa, permiti a animales con afinidades tropicales extenderse unos 350 km tierra adentro.
3672573|Education of residents living on the urban-wildland interface can promote conservation of surrounding natural areas. An educational brochure, Living Close to Nature, was designed specifically for and issued to 5,000 residents living on the borders of the Nature Reserve of Orange County, California. A questionnaire was then issued to residents to test the effectiveness of the brochure and to produce baseline data on the attitudes, knowledge, and perceptions of these residents. We tested whether responses differed between: 1) respondents issued a brochure versus those who were not, and 2) respondents who recalled receiving the brochure versus those who did not. Contrary to expectations, results revealed few statistically significant differences in responses between respondents who were issued the brochure and those who were not. In fact, only 21% of the residents issued a brochure remembered receiving it. Although some statistical differences existed between respondents who recalled receiving the brochure and those who did not, these differences were small. Results suggest that it is essential to incorporate evaluations of educational materials to determine whether information is presented effectively and to tailor future educational efforts accordingly. /// La educacin de residentes que viven en el punto de contacto urbano con tierras silvestres puede promover la conservacin de reas naturales rodeantes. Un folleto educativo, Viviendo Cerca de la Naturaleza, fue especficamente diseado y distribuido a 5.000 habitantes que viven en el lmite con la Reserva Natural del condado de Orange en California. Un cuestionario fue distribuido para probar la eficacia del folleto y para producir informacin fundamental sobre las actitudes, el conocimiento, y los puntos de vista de estos residentes. Probamos para saber si las respuestas difirieron entre: 1) personas que recibieron el folleto y las que no lo recibieron y 2) personas que recordaban haber recibido el folleto y los que no lo recordaban. Contrario a nuestras expectativas, los resultados mostraron pocas diferencias estadsticas significativas entre las respuestas de personas que recibieron el folleto y los que no lo recibieron. De hecho, slo el 21% de los residentes a los que se les distribuy el folleto recordaron haberlo recibido. Aunque existieron algunas diferencias estadsticas entre las personas que recordaban haber recibido el folleto y los que no, esas diferencias fueron pequeas. Los resultados sugieren que es esencial incorporar evaluaciones de materiales educativos para determinar si se presenta la informacin de modo eficaz y para disear proyectos futuros de modo correcto segn los datos recaudados.
3672574|Dendrocoelopsis americana is reported for the first time in Missouri. Sphalloplana evaginata is reported from central Missouri and extends the range of this species by 280 km. /// La especie Dendrocoelopsis americana se est registrada por primera vez en el estado de Missouri y a la especie Sphalloplana evaginata, que se registra en el centro del estado de Missouri, se extiende su rango geogrfico 280 km ms.
3672575|The invasive terrestrial planarian Bipalium kewense is found worldwide in tropical and warm temperate zones. The rate of spread and ecological impact of the flatworm will depend in part on its reproductive strategies. Members of this species reproduce primarily by fission of posterior body fragments. Herein we report, for only the second time in over 120 years of international study, the production of a fertile egg capsule by B. kewense. The capsule was produced by a flatworm from Texas, hatched in 21 days, and it contained 7 juveniles. Although the capsule structure, incubation period, and litter size were similar to those characteristic of the sexual species, B. adventitium, the B. kewense capsule was larger (112 mg) and produced larger offspring. /// La planaria invasiva terrestre Bipalium kewense se encuentra en las zonas tropicales y templadas de todo el mundo. La tasa de dispersin y el impacto ecolgico de este gusano plano dependern en parte de sus estrategias reproductivas. Los miembros de esta especie se reproducen principalmente por la fisin de fragmentos posteriores del cuerpo. Aqu presentamos el segundo registro, en 120 aos de estudios a nivel internacional, de produccin de una cpsula de huevos frtiles de B. kewense. La cpsula fue producida por un individuo proveniente de Texas, eclosion en 21 das y contuvo 7 juveniles. Aunque la estructura de la cpsula, el perodo de incubacin, y el tamao de la camada fueron similares a las caractersticas de la especie sexual, B. adventitium, la cpsula de B. kewense fue ms grande (112 mg) y gener cras ms grandes.
3672576|I report on specimens that represent the first records of 7 cicada species in 5 genera found in Mexico. This is the first report of a Beameria species in Mexico. /// Reporto los primeros registros de siete especies de chicharra de cinco gneros en Mxico. Este es el primer registro de una especie de Beameria en Mxico.
3672577|Bullfrog tadpoles (Rana catesbeiana) and red swamp crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) are widespread introduced taxa that are problematic throughout the western United States. Their impact on native amphibians and crustaceans is well documented, but less is known regarding their influence on native fishes. Predator-prey tank tests showed both species consumed eggs and larvae of the endangered razorback sucker (Xyrauchen texanus) in a laboratory setting. Tadpoles consumed 2.2 razorback sucker eggs/d and 1.4 razorback sucker larvae/d, while crayfish ate 6.0 eggs/d and 3.5 larvae/d. Relatively high densities of bullfrog tadpoles and crayfish in razorback sucker spawning areas suggest that these nonnative taxa might pose a threat to the recruitment success of this and other imperiled native fish. /// Los renacuajos de la rana toro (Rana catesbeiana) y una especie de cangrejo de ro (Procambarus clarkii) son taxa no nativos problemticos con una distribucin geogrfica amplia en el oeste de los Estados Unidos. Su impacto sobre anfibios y crustceos nativos est bien documentado, pero su influencia sobre peces nativos es casi desconocida. Pruebas en tanques de depredador-presa mostraron que ambas especies consumieron huevos y larvas del matalote jorobado (Xyrauchen texanus), una especie amenazada. Los renacuajos consumieron 2.2 huevos de X. texanus/da y 1.4 larvas/da, mientras los cangrejos comieron 6.0 huevos/da y 3.5 larvas/da. Las densidades relativamente altas de los ranacuajos de R. catesbeiana y P. clarkii en zonas del desove de X. texanus sugieren que estas especies no nativas tal vez sean una amenaza al xito de reclutamiento de ste y otros peces nativos amenazados.
3672578|The Colorado pikeminnow (Ptychocheilus lucius) is a federally endangered fish, which was once abundant and widespread in the Colorado River basin. During exotic fish removal sampling in the spring of 2003, 2004, and 2005, 2 Colorado pikeminnow were collected upstream of critical habitat in the Yampa River, Colorado. Collection of these specimens might be an artifact of low historical sampling effort, but they do serve to document potential habitat use of Colorado pikeminnow outside of critical habitat. /// El charalito del Colorado (Ptychocheilus lucius) es un pez catalogado en peligro de extincin por el gobierno federal, que anteriormente fue abundante y con una distribucin amplia en la cuenca del ro de Colorado. Durante el proceso de remover el pez extico en la primavera de 2003, 2004 y 2005, se colectaron 2 charalitos ro arriba del hbitat crtico en el ro Yampa en Colorado. La colecta de estos especimenes puede ser un artefacto del bajo esfuerzo histrico del muestreo, pero sirve para documentar el uso potencial del hbitat del charalito del Colorado fuera del hbitat crtico.
3672579|We placed 72 plasticine replicas of large and small snakes near a California ground squirrel (Spermophilus beecheyi) colony in San Diego County, California. Ground squirrels aggressively confronted both large and small replica snakes. Ground squirrels were more aggressive when attacking small replicas relative to large. Ground squirrels bit the smaller replicas a greater number of times, concentrating their attacks near the head of the replica. Large replicas were attacked more frequently near the tail. From the results we conclude: 1) California ground squirrels recognize increased risk of attacking larger versus smaller snakes, and 2) use of plasticine replicas is an effective method to investigate antipredator behavior of prey. /// Colocamos 72 replicas de culebras hechas de plasticina, algunas grandes y otras pequeas, cerca de una colonia de ardillones de California (Spermophilus beecheyi) en el condado de San Diego en California. Los ardillones agresivamente confrontaron a ambas culebras de plasticina, las chicas y las grandes. Atacaron ms agresivamente a las replicas de culebras pequeas que a las grandes. Los ardillones mordieron las replicas pequeas ms, concentrando sus ataques cerca de la cabeza de las replicas. Las replicas grandes fueron atacadas con ms frecuencia en el rea de la cola. De los resultados concluimos que: 1) los ardillones de California reconocen que hay mayor riesgo al atacar a las culebras grandes que a las ms pequeas; y 2) el uso de replicas de plasticina es un mtodo efectivo para investigar el comportamiento anti-depredador de una presa.
3672580|We report the collection of 4 specimens that extend the range of the least shrew (Cryptotis parva) in Colorado. The 2 collection locations are approximately 240 km and 290 km from previously collected specimens documented from the Cimarron River watershed in southeastern Colorado and approximately 300 km from those documented from the Arkansas River watershed in Kansas. These 4 specimens are the first individuals reported from the Arkansas River watershed in Colorado. /// Registramos la coleccin de 4 especimenes que extiende la distribucin de la musaraa chica (Cryptotis parva) en Colorado. Las 2 reas de coleccin estn a aproximadamente 240 km y 290 km de los especimenes previamente colectados y documentados en la cuenca del ro Cimarron en el sureste de Colorado y aproximadamente 300 km de los que fueron documentados de la cuenca del ro Arkansas en Kansas. Estos 4 especimenes son los primeros que se han coleccionado en la cuenca del ro Arkansas en Colorado.
3672581|New distributional mammal records are reported for Yaxchiln, Chiapas, Mexico, and Belize. Nicforo's large-eared bat Trinycteris nicefori (Chiroptera, Phyllostomidae) is documented for the first time for Mexico, providing the northwesternmost locality for the species. A new Belizean locality also is reported and constitutes the northernmost record. The dark Mexican shrew Cryptotis griseoventris (Soricomorpha, Soricidae) has been reported previously from the highlands from Chiapas, in coniferous forest at elevations above 2,100 m; its presence in the lowland Selva Lacandona (below 90 m) is surprising and raises questions about its specific identify. Further studies are warranted. /// Nuevos registros de distribucin de mamferos se reportan para Yaxchiln, Chiapas, Mxico y Belice. El murcilago orejn de Nicforo Trinycteris nicefori (Chiroptera, Phyllostomidae) se documenta por primera vez en Mxico, proveyendo el registro ms al noroeste para la especie. Tambin se registra una nueva localidad para Belice, representando el registro ms norteo. La musaraa obscura mexicana Cryptotis griseoventris (Soricomorpha, Soricidae) ha sido previamente registrada de las tierras altas de Chiapas, en bosque de conferas arriba de los 2,100 m; su presencia en las tierras bajas de la Selva Lacandona (abajo de 90 m) es sorprendente y plantea el cuestionamiento acerca de su identidad especfica. Se planean futuros estudios.
3672582|We obtained dejection and expulsion rates for use as correction factors in studies of diet and relative abundance of coyotes (Canis latrans). Feeding tests were performed at the Zacango Zoo, Calimaya, Mexico. We tested 3 treatments with different categories of biomass (10 to 80 g, 100 to 700 g, and 1,000 to 4,500 g). Dejection rates averaged 0.79  0.22 SD excrements/g of biomass, with no significant difference among treatments. Expulsion rates significantly differed, with 1.33 scats produced/g of biomass for the first category (10 to 80 g), 4.69 scats/g of biomass for the second category, and 6.91 scats/g of biomass for the third. We compared these values with those from other studies performed with wolf (Canis lupus) and lynx (Lynx pardinus). /// Obtuvimos tasas de deyeccin y expulsin para utilizarlas como factores de correccin en estudios de dieta y abundancia relativa de coyotes (Canis latrans). Se realizaron pruebas alimentarias en el zoolgico de Zacango, Calimaya, Mxico. Probamos 3 tratamientos con diferentes cantidades de biomasa (10 a 80 g, 100 a 700 g, y 1,000 a 4,500 g). La tasa de deyeccin fue de 0.79  0.22 DE excrementos/g de biomasa, sin diferencia significativa entre tratamientos. Las tasas de expulsin difirieron significativamente, con 1.33 excrementos producidos/g de biomasa para la primera categora (10 a 80 g), 4.69 excrementos/g de biomasa para la segunda categora, y de 6.91 excrementos/g de biomasa para la tercera. Comparamos estos valores con los de otros estudios realizados con en lobo gris (Canis lupus) y el lince pardo (Lynx pardinus).
3672583|Morphological abnormalities can be associated with inbreeding depression or heritability in natural populations. We explored a genetic basis for antler and pedicle deformities documented in a population of reintroduced elk (Cervus elaphus) on the Hualapai Indian Reservation in northwestern Arizona. We used 12 microsatellite loci to compare individual multi-locus heterozygosity (IH) and internal relatedness (IR) between bull elk with antler malformations (n = 23) and individuals with normal antler conformation (n = 17). Additionally, we used 3 pairwise relatedness coefficients to determine whether males with deformed antlers were more closely related than males with normal antlers. Mean IH and mean IR were not significantly higher for the group with deformed antlers. Similarly, the relationship between antler malformations and pairwise relatedness also was not significant, suggesting that deformed males did not share the antler trait because of a closer genetic relationship. Other factors, such as nutritional or environmental characteristics, might be associated with the deformities. Further research is necessary to determine the underlying causes of the antler and pedicle malformations documented in the introduced elk herd in northern Arizona. /// En poblaciones naturales las anormalidades morfolgicas se pueden asociar con la depresin por cruzamiento consanguneo o la heredabilidad. Exploramos una base gentica para las deformidades de cuerno y de pednculo (base del cuerno) documentadas en una poblacin reintroducida del alce (Cervus elaphus) en la Hualapai Indian Reservation en el noroeste de Arizona. Usamos 12 loci de microsatlites para comparar la heterozigosidad individual de mltiples loci (IH) y parentesco interno (IR) entre alces adultos machos con malformaciones (n = 23) e individuos que presentaron formacin normal de cuerno (n = 17). Adicionalmente, utilizamos 3 coeficientes de parentesco pareados para determinar si los machos con cuernos deformados estuvieron ms estrechamente relacionados entre s que los machos con cuernos normales. La media de IH y la media de IR no fueron significativamente ms altas para el grupo de cuernos deformados. Asimismo, la relacin entre las malformaciones de cuerno y los coeficientes de parentesco pareados tampoco fue significativa, lo que sugiere que los machos deformados no comparten esta caracterstica entre s debido a una relacin gentica ms cercana. Otras causas, como factores nutricionales o ambientales, podrn estar asociadas con estas deformidades. Se necesita investigacin adicional para determinar las causas fundamentales de las malformaciones de cuerno y de pednculo documentadas en el grupo de alces introducidos en el norte de Arizona.
3672584|Historically, desert bighorn sheep occurred throughout Coahuila, Mexico, as far south as latitude 254302N. The subspecies Ovis canadensis mexicana probably was extirpated in Coahuila by 1970. We determined the historical range of desert bighorn sheep through a review of the available literature, interviews with long-term local residents, and a subjective habitat assessment. We found historical documentation of bighorn sheep in 14 mountain ranges (Sierra Alamitos, Sierra Maderas del Carmen, Sierra la Encantada, Sierra Hechiceros, Sierra del Pino, Sierra Mojada, Sierra el Rey, Sierra San Marcos y del Pino, Sierra Gavia, and Sierra la Paila), including 4 previously not recorded (Sierra el Fuste, Sierra el Almagre, Sierra de la Madera, and Sierra la Fragua). In addition, one archaeological site with remains of bighorn sheep was identified (La Candelaria Cave). The introduction of domestic livestock, particularly sheep and goats, and unregulated hunting probably were the major factors contributing to the extirpation of the subspecies in Coahuila. These factors persist in 7 areas, and we learned of the presence of aoudad (Ammotragus lervia) in 3 mountain ranges (Sierra Mojada, Sierra Hechiceros, and Sierra la Fragua). /// Histricamente, el borrego cimarrn present una distribucin amplia en Coahuila, Mxico, llegando al sur hasta la latitud 254302N. La subespecie Ovis canadensis mexicana probablemente fue extirpada en Coahuila para 1970. Determinamos la distribucin histrica del borrego cimarrn mediante una revisin de literatura disponible, entrevistas con ancianos residentes del rea, y un anlisis subjetivo del hbitat. Encontramos registros histricos del borrego para 14 sierras, (Sierra Alamitos, Sierra Maderas del Carmen, Sierra la Encantada, Sierra Hechiceros, Sierra del Pino, Sierra Mojada, Sierra el Rey, Sierra San Marcos y del Pino, Sierra Gavia y Sierra la Paila) incluyendo 4 que no haban sido registradas (Sierra el Fuste, Sierra el Almagre, Sierra de la Madera y Sierra la Fragua). Adicionalmente, un sitio con registros arqueolgicos de la especie fue identificado (La Cueva de la Candelaria). La introduccin de ganado domstico, particularmente borregos y cabras, y la cacera sin regulacin probablemente fueron los principales factores que contribuyeron a la extirpacin de la subespecie en Coahuila. Estos factores persisten en 7 reas, y nos enteramos de la presencia de aoudad (Ammotragus lervia) en 3 sierras (Sierra Mojada, Sierra Hechiceros, y Sierra la Fragua).
3672585|We report a second instance of erythrism in North American badgers, Taxidea, in western Nevada. /// Reportamos el segundo registro de eritrismo en el badger tajn, Taxidea, en el oeste de Nevada.
20424724|Aquifer biofilm-forming isolates from the Edwards Aquifer, Texas, were characterized biochemically and by phylogenetic analyses based on partial 500 bp 16S rRNA sequencing. Five of the 8 strains evaluated were gram-negative and the other 3 were gram-positive. Phylogenetic analyses suggested novelty of 3 isolates, and biochemical analysis showed a range of carbon-source use patterns among the isolates. Such baseline information will be useful for investigating biofilm population interactions, as well as understanding the microbial ecology of unpolluted karst aquifers. /// Aislantes de acuferos que forman capas biticas del Edwards Aquifer, Texas, fueron caracterizados bioqumicamente y por anlisis filogenticos basados en secuencias parciales de 500 bp de 16S rRNA. Cinco de las ocho cepas evaluadas fueron gram-negativas y las otras tres fueron gram-positivas. Los anlisis filogenticos sugirieron la novedad de tres aislantes y el anlisis bioqumico mostr un surtido de patrones de uso de fuente carbn entre los aislantes. Tal informacin bsica ser til para investigar interacciones poblacionales de las capas biticas as como para entender la ecologa microbiana de los acuferos del karst no contaminados.
20424725|In 2004, we studied the life history and ecology of a population of Pardosa sierra (Araneae, Lycosidae) from Cave Creek Canyon (Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona). Peak abundance for immatures occurred in July, September, and October. About 64% of all adult males and females were observed in April and May. Females were observed carrying egg sacs between 5 April and 3 August. Diet composition consisted primarily of beetles (18.4%), flies (15.3%), and ants (12.2%). Spiders were active during the day, as well as at night. Immatures and adults preferred sandy or rocky substrates, respectively. Under controlled laboratory conditions, the life cycle consisted of 9 instars, and mean carapace width increased from 0.66 mm (instar 1) to 2.26 mm (instar 9: adult males and females). Clutch size ranged from 35 to 92 (mean = 67.81). Gestation period ranged from 22 to 27 days (mean = 24.06). Significant positive correlations were found between female mass and size, offspring mass and size, female size and clutch size, and female size and clutch mass. Mean total clutch mass was 34.9% of mean female mass. /// En el 2004 estudiamos la historia de vida y la ecologa de una poblacin de araa lobo (Araneae, Lycosidae) de Cave Creek Canyon (Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona). La abundancia mxima de araas juveniles ocurri en julio, septiembre, y octubre. Alrededor de 64% de todos los adultos machos y hembras se observaron en abril y mayo. Se observ a las hembras llevando sacos de huevos entre el 5 de mayo y el 3 de agosto. La composicin de la dieta consisti principalmente de escarabajos (18.4%), moscas (15.3%), y hormigas (12.2%). Las araas estuvieron activas durante el da y la noche. Los juveniles y adultos prefirieron suelo arenoso o rocoso, respectivamente. En condiciones controladas en el laboratorio, el ciclo de vida consisti de nueve estados, y el promedio de anchura de la caparazn aument desde 0.66 mm (estado uno) a 2.26 mm (estado nueve: adultos machos y hembras). El tamao de la nidada vari desde 35 a 92 (promedio = 67.81). El tiempo de gestacin vari desde 22 a 27 das (promedio = 24.06). Se encontraron correlaciones positivas significativas entre la masa de las hembras y su tamao, masa de los neonatos y su tamao, tamao de las hembras y tamao de la puesta, y tamao de las hembras y masa de la puesta. El promedio de la masa total de la puesta fue 34.9% de la media de la masa de las hembras.
20424726|Relative frequencies of heterozygous inversions in a natural population of Drosophila willistoni from a locality of Veracruz, Mexico, were determined during the period from January 1994 to January 2001. An analysis of 636 chromosomes was performed on smears of salivary glands. Of the 70 known inversions present in the species, I detected only 45 of them, representing 64.3% of the total. Most of these 45 inversions had frequencies &lt;10%. Six were found only once in the sampling period; the remaining appeared more than twice, with an erratic presence and variable relative frequency. Inversions A, F, and G of the XL chromosome arm were present in all samples, as was inversion E of the IIR chromosome arm and inversion B from the third chromosome. The inversions that attained average frequencies &gt;10% were inversion A (chromosome XL), inversion E (IIR), and inversion B (III). Changes in the relative frequencies in some inversions were detected for the period studied. The average number of heterozygous inversions per female ranged from 1.92 to 3.77, with an average for the entire sampling period of 2.57. Thus, this Mexican population of D. willistoni possesses a considerable degree of chromosomal polymorphism. /// Se determinaron las frecuencias de las inversiones heterocigticas en una poblacin natural de Drosophila willistoni originaria de una localidad de Veracruz, Mxico, durante el periodo de enero de 1994 a enero de 2001. Un anlisis de 636 cromosomas fue realizado en preparaciones de glndulas salivales. De las 70 inversiones conocidas en esta especie, detect slo 45 de ellas, lo que representa el 64.3% del total. La mayora de las 45 inversiones mostraron frecuencias &lt;10%. Seis de ellas slo se encontraron en una ocasin, en tanto que las restantes aparecieron ms de dos veces en forma errtica y variable en sus frecuencias relativas. Las inversiones A, F y G del brazo cromosmico XL estuvieron presentes en todas las muestras y as como la inversin E del brazo cromosmico IIR y la inversin B del tercer cromosoma. Las inversiones que tuvieron frecuencias promedio &gt;10% fueron la inversin A (cromosoma XL), inversin E (IIR), y la inversin B (III). Cambios en las frecuencias relativas de algunas inversiones fueron detectadas durante el periodo estudiado. El nmero promedio de inversiones heterocigticas por hembra vari de 1.92 a 3.77, con un promedio para todo el periodo de estudio de 2.57. Entonces, esta poblacin mexicana de D. willistoni tiene un considerable grado de polimorfismo cromosmico.
20424727|One hundred and four caddisfly species within 42 genera and 17 families were collected from 93 stream sites in the xeric landscape of the lower Colorado River Basin, USA. Species richness showed a significant negative correlation with channel embeddedness. Forestland had higher species richness than grassland, desert, or urban caddisfly assemblages, and fewer caddisfly species occurred in the salt-cedar (Tamarix) than in willow-alder (Salix-Alnus) and cottonwoodsycamore (Populus-Plantanus) riparian communities. Hydroptilidae comprised nearly 35% of the average relative abundance of caddisflies and were generally tolerant of impaired stream environments. Hydroptila arctia composed the greatest relative proportion of species. Adjusted specific conductance and channel embeddedness metrics showed close agreement with published tolerance values for caddisfly species listed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; genera were in less agreement. Amphicosmoecus canax, Brachycentrus americanus, Culoptila moselyi, Glossosoma ventrale, Ochrotrichia ildria, Psychoglypha schuhi, and Ylodes reuteri were most commonly associated with streams with low salinities and low embeddedness, whereas Cheumatopsyche enonis, Hydropsyche auricolor, Hydroptila ajax, Hydroptila arctia, Neotrichia okopa, Smicridea signata, and Smicridea fasciatella reached highest numeric importance in streams with high salinities and embeddedness. /// Ciento cuatro especies de Tricptera de 42 gneros y 17 familias fueron colectadas de 93 arroyos en ambientes ridos de la cuenca baja del ro Colorado, USA. La riqueza de especies mostr una correlacin negativa significativa con la sedimentacin del lecho. La tierra forestal tuvo ms riqueza de especies de Tricptera que los pastizales, el desierto o centros urbanos, y menos especies de Tricptera occurieron en cedro de la sal (Tamarix) que en las comunidades ribereas de sauce-aliso (Salix-Alnus) y lamo-sicamor (Populus-Plantanus). Hydroptilidae comprendieron casi 35% de la abundancia relativa promedio de Tricptera y fueron generalmente tolerantes de ambientes de arroyos daados. Hydroptila arctia tuvo la ms alta proporcin relativa de las especies. Las medidas para conductividad especfica ajustada y para la sedimentacin del lecho fueron parecidas a valores de tolerancia para Tricptera publicados por la U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; las de los gneros estuvieron menos de acuerdo. Amphicosmoecus canax, Brachycentrus americanus, Culoptila moselyi, Glossosoma ventrale, Ochrotrichia ildria, Psychoglypha schuhi, y Ylodes reuteri fueron comnmente asociadas con arroyos con salinidades bajas y sedimentacin baja, mientras que Cheumatopsyche enonis, Hydropsyche auricolor, Hydroptila ajax, Hydroptila arctia, Neotrichia okopa, Smicridea signata, y Smicridea fasciatella alcanzaron importancia numrica ms alta en arroyos con altas salinidades y sedimentacin.
20424728|We studied allozyme diversity of the endemic Caddo madtom, Noturus taylori, over its small geographic range (&lt;2,000 km) in the Ouachita Highlands of southwestern Arkansas. This small catfish species exhibited marked genetic divergence among rivers and low levels of genetic variation within sampling localities. The more widely distributed brindled madtom, Noturus miurus, exhibited nearly identical patterns of genetic divergence among river localities separated by similar geographic distance, and similarly low levels of variation within localities were observed. We compared genetic results from madtoms to those obtained in a previous study of 2 co-distributed, endemic darter species and found that habitat specialists, especially those restricted to headwaters, are likely to show high levels of genetic divergence at relatively small spatial scales. Comparative genetic and ecological study of these endemic species suggests that an interaction of extrinsic (larger rivers with higher silt loads) and intrinsic (habitat preferences) barriers to fish movement contributes to population structure in the Ouachita Highlands. Species that specialize on headwater habitats might be particularly vulnerable to local extirpation because natural recolonization from adjacent rivers is unlikely. /// Estudiamos la diversidad aloensmica del pez endmico Noturus taylori a lo largo de su limitada rea geogrfica (&lt;2000 km) en las Ouachita Highlands al suroeste de Arkansas. Este pez de pequeo tamao mostr una marcada divergencia gentica entre ros, y bajos niveles de variacin gentica dentro de las localidades del muestreo. El Noturus miurus, de distribucin ms amplia, mostr prcticamente los mismos patrones de divergencia gentica entre ros separados por una distancia geogrfica similar, y mostr igualmente escasos niveles de variacin dentro de cada localidad. Comparamos los resultados genticos de los Noturus con los obtenidos en un estudio previo de dos especies endmicas de dardos con la misma distribucin entre ellas y encontramos que los especialistas de hbitat, en especial los que estn restringidos a los tramos altos de ro, suelen mostrar altos niveles de divergencia gentica en escalas espaciales relativamente pequeas. El estudio gentico y ecolgico comparado de estas especies endmicas sugiere que una interaccin de barreras extrnsecas (ros grandes con altas cargas sedimentarias) e intrnsecas (preferencias de hbitat) limitantes al traslado de los peces contribuye a la estructura poblacional en las Ouachita Highlands. Las especies que se especializan en habitats de tramos altos de ros pueden ser particularmente vulnerables a la extincin local ya que es improbable que ocurra una recolonizacin natural de ros adyacentes.
20424729|We monitored an inland population of American alligator (Alligator mississipiensis) in Lake Raven, Huntsville State Park, Walker County, Texas from September 2000 to August 2001. We found alligators exhibited year-round activity in Lake Raven, with the lowest occurrence of alligators in December and January. The greatest numbers of alligators were surveyed in June and September. However, in September, 47% of the observed individuals were hatchlings. Water temperature was a significant predictor of alligator activity over air temperature and explained 37% of the observed variation in seasonal activity. A population index estimated that Lake Raven supported 0.19 alligators per hectare, with most of these alligators being juveniles and in the size class of 0.6 to 0.9 m. We also found alligators used all regions of the perimeter of the lake and were observed mostly 5 m from the shoreline. Because there is limited information on inland alligator populations in Texas, this study offers information on the seasonal activity, relative abundance, and size-class structure of alligators inhabiting a relatively small (85 ha) and highly disturbed inland lake. This information might be useful for future studies and comparisons with coastal alligator populations. /// Monitoreamos una poblacin interior del cocodrilo Alligator mississippiensis en el lago Raven, Huntsville State Park, condado de Walker, Texas, de septiembre del 2000 a agosto del 2001. Los resultados indicaron que la actividad de estos cocodrilos es de todo el ao en el lago Raven, con menor incidencia en diciembre y enero. El nmero mayor encontrado fue en los meses de junio y septiembre. Sin embargo, en septiembre, el 47% de los individuos observados eran cras. La temperatura del agua nos brind un pronstico significativo y fue ms efectiva que la temperatura del aire para la actividad de los cocodrilos y explic el 37% de la variacin observada de la actividad estacional. Un ndice de poblacin estim que el lago Raven mantiene a 0.19 cocodrilos por hectrea. Muchos de stos eran juveniles y pertenecan a la clase de tamao de 0.6 a 0.9 m. Tambin encontramos que cocodrilos usaban todas las regiones del permetro del lago y los observamos en la mayora a 5 m de la orilla. Ya que existe informacin limitada de las poblaciones del interior de Texas, este estudio ofrece informacin de la actividad estacional, abundancia relativa y estructura de las clases de tamao de los cocodrilos que habitan en un lago interior relativamente pequeo (85 ha) y sumamente perturbado. Esta informacin puede ser til para estudios futuros y comparaciones con poblaciones costeras de cocodrilos.
20424730|Ranches are being converted to low-density exurban housing developments in the Southwest, with potentially significant but little studied impacts on biological diversity. We counted cottontail rabbits (Sylvilagus audubonii and S. floridanus) in a grassland and in a mesquite-oak savanna in southeastern Arizona, on 48 plots evenly divided among landscapes that were grazed by livestock, or embedded in housing developments, or both, or neither. Cottontails were more abundant in exurban neighborhoods than in undeveloped areas, independent of grazing. They also were more common on ungrazed than on grazed lands, independent of development. Counts were positively correlated with the number of homes near plots. Counts also were positively correlated with height of ground cover and percent tree canopy, but only among plots in undeveloped landscapes. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that cottontails benefited from exurban development because of increased cover provided by structures and landscaping, especially in areas such as open grasslands with relatively little natural cover. /// En el suroeste de los Estados Unidos los ranchos estn siendo transformados en desarrollos habitacionales suburbanos de baja densidad, con impactos potencialmente significativos, pero poco estudiados, sobre la diversidad biolgica. Contamos conejos (Sylvilagus audubonii y S. floridanus) en pradera y en sabana de mesquite/encino en el sureste de Arizona, en 48 parcelas, divididas igualmente entre parajes que fueron pastoreados por ganado, o localizados dentro de desarrollos habitacionales, o ambos, o ninguno. Los conejos fueron ms abundantes en vecindarios suburbanos que en reas no desarrolladas, independientemente del pastoreo. Tambin fueron ms comunes en tierras no pastoreadas que en las pastoreadas, independientemente del desarrollo. El conteo tuvo una correlacin positiva con el nmero de casas cercanas a las parcelas. Los conteos tambin fueron correlacionados positivamente con la altura del dosel y el porcentaje de dosel, pero slo entre parcelas en parajes no desarrollados. Estos resultados son consistentes con la hiptesis de que los conejos se beneficiaron con los desarrollos suburbanos a causa del aumento de cubierta dada por las estructuras y los jardines, especialmente en reas tales como praderas abiertas con relativamente poca cubierta natural.
20424731|We classified displacements between axis deer (Axis axis) and fallow deer (Dama dama) by age, sex, species, and intensity (contact, non-contact) at high-quality, supplemental food patches on a Texas ranch. Axis deer males performed significantly fewer interspecific displacements than fallow deer males in fall and winter, whereas fallow deer males performed significantly fewer interspecific displacements than axis deer males in summer. Fallow deer males required significantly less intensity to displace axis deer males than conspecifics in both fall and winter. Fallow deer females engaged in significantly fewer displacements than axis deer females in winter and spring, and axis deer females required significantly less intensity to displace fallow deer females than conspecifics in winter. Heterospecific displacements between axis deer and fallow deer males correlated with the proportion of fallow deer males in hard antler. Fallow deer female displacements correlated with season. We concluded that interspecific dominance interactions between males of these 2 species are resolved by differences in the developmental stage of antlers and aggressiveness. /// Clasificamos suplantaciones entre los ciervos axis (Axis axis) y los ciervos dama (Dama dama) por edad, sexo, especie, e intensidad (contacto o no contacto) en parches de comida suplementales de alta calidad en un rancho en Texas. Los machos del ciervo axis hicieron significativamente menos suplantaciones interespecficas que los machos del ciervo dama en el otoo y el invierno, mientras que los machos del ciervo dama hicieron significativamente menos suplantaciones interespecficas que los machos del ciervo axis en el verano. Los machos del ciervo dama requirieron significativamente menos intensidad para desplazar a los machos del ciervo axis que a los conespecficos en el otoo y el invierno. Las hembras del ciervo dama participaron en menos suplantaciones que las hembras del ciervo axis en el invierno y en la primavera, y las hembras del ciervo axis requirieron menos intensidad para desplazar a las hembras del ciervo dama que las conespecficas en el invierno. Las suplantaciones heteroespecficas entre los machos del ciervo axis y ciervo dama se correlacionaron con la proporcin de machos del ciervo dama con cornamenta dura. Las suplantaciones de las hembras del ciervo dama se correlacionaron con la estacin. Concluimos que las interacciones de la dominacin interespecfica entre estas 2 especies son resueltas por diferencias en la etapa de desarrollo de las cornamentas y de la agresividad.
20424732|In southern Texas, the lack of free-standing water that results from low rainfall or poor water quality can be deleterious to wildlife. Water quality can deteriorate rapidly due to evaporation during summer in southern Texas, and high concentrations of salts in water can cause physiological distress; however, little research has addressed water quality and needs of wildlife in arid environments. Our objectives were to: 1) establish water use patterns of wildlife during summer, 2) correlate visitation rates to temperature and rainfall events, and 3) monitor water quality in earthen stock ponds and concrete troughs during summer. We recorded visits to water by 17 species of wildlife and cattle. Cattle, feral pigs (Sus scrofa), and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) had peak watering times that differed from one another. Track surveys showed a generally negative correlation between rainfall and wildlife watering frequency. Troughs had significantly higher total dissolved solids and pH than ponds on both study sites. There was no effect of month on pH or total dissolved solids. Total dissolved solid concentrations for water sources on one study site were fair to excellent for livestock, whereas 2 sources on the other study site approached the maximum allowable limit. /// En el sur de Texas, la falta de agua superficial como resultado de poca lluvia o la pobre calidad del agua puede ser perjudicial para la fauna silvestre. La calidad del agua puede deteriorase rpidamente debido a la evaporacin durante el verano en el sur de Texas y la alta concentracin de sales en el agua puede causar desajustes fisiolgicos en animales; sin embargo, la investigacin sobre los efectos de la calidad del agua y las necesidades de la fauna en ambientes ridos es escasa. Nuestros objetivos fueron: 1) establecer los patrones de utilizacin del agua por la fauna silvestre durante el verano, 2) correlacionar los ndices de visitas a los aguajes con la temperatura y los eventos de precipitacin, y 3) monitorear la calidad del agua en estanques con bordes de tierra y en canales de cemento durante el verano. Se grabaron las visitas a los aguajes realizadas por 17 especies de fauna silvestre y ganado bovino. El ganado bovino, los cerdos salvajes (Sus scrofa), y el venado cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus) tuvieron diferentes tiempos de visita a los aguajes. Los muestreos de huellas mostraron por lo general una correlacin negativa entre la precipitacin y la frecuencia de las visitas de la fauna silvestre a los aguajes. Los canales tuvieron una significativamente mayor concentracin de slidos totales disueltos y pH que los estanques en ambos sitios de estudio. No se detect efecto del mes en el pH o en los slidos totales disueltos. La concentracin total de slidos disueltos en las fuentes de agua de un sitio de estudio fueron de regular a excelente para ganado, mientras que 2 fuentes del agua del otro sitio tuvieron valores cercanos al lmite permitido.
20424733|We present the first summary of the status and distribution of the Benton cave crayfish (Cambarus aculabrum). The range of this endangered crayfish is limited to 4 sites globally (3 in Benton County and 1 in Washington County, Arkansas). The identity of the species at these 4 sites is based upon morphological and genetic studies. The identities of cave crayfish inhabiting 2 additional Benton County sites remain undetermined. The current population census is 40 individuals. Threats to the species are analyzed, and subsequent conservation measures recommended. Habitat degradation remains a threat to the species, especially for water quality. Analyses from 1983 to 2002 document nutrient pollution of the subterranean stream habitats, originating from sources such as septic system discharge and run-off from confined animal feeding operations. /// Presentamos el primer resumen del estado actual y la distribucin del cangrejo Cambarus aculabrum. El rango de esta especie en peligro de extincin est limitado a 4 sitios totales (3 en el condado de Benton y 1 en el condado de Washington, Arkansas). La identidad de la especie en estos cuatro sitios se basa en estudios morfolgicos y genticos. Las identidades de individuos habitando dos localidades adicionales en el condado de Benton permanecen sin determinar. El censo actual de la poblacin es de 40 individuos. Amenazas a la poblacin son analizadas y medidas para la conservacin de la especie son recomendadas. La degradacin del hbitat contina siendo una amenaza a la especie, especialmente la calidad del agua. Anlisis de 1983 al 2002 documentan la contaminacin de nutrientes en las corrientes subterrneas, que se originan en descargas de sistemas spticos y deshechos lquidos de operaciones de alimentacin de animales en cautiverio.
20424734|This study updates the status, expands the range, and summarizes conservation activities to date for the bristly cave crayfish, Cambarus setosus. A new state record for this crayfish is reported after its discovery at 2 sites in 2 counties (Benton and Independence counties, Arkansas). This makes C. setosus the fifty-eighth crayfish species known from Arkansas. This is also the first record of C. setosus from the Salem Plateau of the Ozark Plateaus ecoregion; it was known previously only from the Springfield Plateau of Missouri. The range of C. setosus in Missouri includes the counties of Barry, Christian, Dade, Greene, Jasper, Lawrence, McDonald, Newton, and Stone; it is not presently known from Oklahoma, as previously reported. Cambarus setosus is probably a species complex with genetic variability at the subspecific level, especially in southwestern Missouri. Cambarus setosus is now known from 50 sites, but only 164 individuals (tallied from the most recent census at each site). This crayfish has been impacted by both habitat degradation and scientific study. Conservation organizations have begun preserving cave entrances, but conservation activity is lacking in subterranean stream recharge zones. Increased protection is recommended, including federal listing under the US Endangered Species Act. /// Este estudio actualiza el estado, expande la distribucin, y resume acciones de conservacin que hasta la fecha se han llevado a cabo a favor del cangrejo Cambarus setosus. Se reporta un nuevo registro estatal para este cangrejo luego de su descubrimiento en dos localidades en dos condados (los condados Benton e Independence, Arkansas). Esto hace a C. setosus la 58ava especie de cangrejo conocida de Arkansas. Es adems el primer registro de C. setosus en el Salem Plateau en la ecoregin del Ozark Plateaus, conocido previamente slo del Springfield Plateau de Missouri. La distribucin de C. setosus en Missouri incluye los condados de Barry, Christian, Dade, Greene, Jasper, Lawrence, McDonald, Newton, y Stone; no se conoce en Oklahoma, como anteriormente fue reportado. Cambarus setosus es un complejo de especies con variabilidad gentica a nivel subespecfica, especialmente en el suroeste de Missouri. Cambarus setosus es conocido en 50 localidades, pero solamente 164 individuos (contados en los censos ms recientes en cada localidad). Este cangrejo ha sido impactado tanto por degradacin del hbitat como por estudio cientifico. Organizaciones de conservacin han comenzado la proteccin de entradas de cuevas, pero faltan estos esfuerzos en zonas de reabastecimiento de corrientes subterrneas. Se recomienda un incremento en esfuerzos de conservacin, incluyendo su registro en el listado federal cubierto bajo el Acta de Especies en Peligro de Extincin de los Estados Unidos.
20424735|The range of the endangered Hell Creek Cave crayfish (Cambarus zophonastes) is expanded to include a second population, determined by genetic analyses. This crayfish is still restricted to Stone County, Arkansas, and is known from only 14 individuals at Hell Creek Cave and 9 individuals at Nesbitt Spring Cave. Despite this range extension, Cambarus zophonastes remains vulnerable to extinction. Water quality sampling of Hell Creek Cave did not detect any major contamination, although numerous potential point and nonpoint source pollutants exist in the watershed. Habitat degradation remains an important threat to this species. Recovery plan implementation status and conservation activities were reviewed and recommendations made. /// La distribucin geogrfica del cangrejo en peligro de extincin Cambarus zophonastes, se incrementa al incluir una segunda poblacin, determinada por anlisis gentico. Este cangrejo se limita a Stone County, Arkansas, y se conoce solamente de 14 individuos en Hell Creek Cave y 9 individuos en Nesbitt Spring Cave. A pesar de esta extensin geogrfica, Cambarus zophonastes contina vulnerable a la extincin. Muestras de la calidad del agua de Hell Creek Cave no detectaron contaminantes trascendentales, aunque numerosas fuentes potenciales localizadas y difusas de contaminacin existen en la cuenca. La degradacin del hbitat contina siendo una amenaza importante a esta especie. El estatus de un plan de recuperacin y actividades de conservacin fueron revisadas y se hicieron recomendaciones.
20424736|On 9 July 2002, while sampling a flowing segment of the North Fork Ninnescah River 10 km upstream from Cheney Reservoir, Reno County, Kansas, we observed and collected dead and dying specimens of 5 fish species. We attribute the fish kill to high water temperature, which reached 38.0C on this day. /// El 9 de julio del 2002, mientras muestrebamos un segmento con corriente del ro North Fork Ninnescah, 10 km ro arriba de la presa Cheney, en el condado de Reno en Kansas, observamos y recolectamos cinco especies de peces moribundos y muertos. Atribuimos la muerte de los peces a la alta temperatura del agua registrada ese da, la cual alcanz los 38.0C.
20424737|Ovarian follicular development and ovulation were studied by ultrasound scanning in the Mexican viviparous lizard Barisia imbricata. A linear ultrasound unit with variable capacity from 5 to 10 MHz was used. Vitellogenic follicle diameters ranged from 3.3 to 9.8 mm and were present in the lizards between September and December. Also, corpora lutea and uterine eggs were identified. The ultrasound is an excellent non-invasive technique to determine seasonal reproductive changes and can be combined with other techniques to monitor the reproductive process. /// El desarrollo folicular del ovario y la ovulacin fueron estudiados en la lagartija vivpara mexicana Barisia imbricata mediante la tcnica de ultrasonido. Se utiliz una unidad linear con capacidad variable de entre 5-10 MHz. Los dimetros de folculos vitelognicos variaron de 3.3 a 9.8 mm y estuvieron presentes entre septiembre y diciembre. Cuerpos lteos y huevos uterinos tambin fueron identificados. El ultrasonido es una excelente tcnica no destructiva para determinar los cambios reproductivos estacionales y puede ser combinado con otras tcnicas para el seguimiento del proceso reproductor.
20424738|We documented the effects of inadvertent nest destruction from road maintenance activities on the survivorship, reproductive success, and breeding dispersal of burrowing owls (Athene cunicularia) breeding in natural burrows along the water delivery system in the Imperial Valley of California. The activities affected 4 nests (7 adult owls) along an 800-m section of road, filling in or destroying all of the burrows. Three of 7 adult owls in the impacted area were killed, 2 of 2 active nests failed, 2 nests that had previously failed were destroyed and might have led to the dispersal of the surviving adults. We suggest that artificial burrows will reduce the conflict between maintenance and burrowing owl nests, which will benefit both owls and landowners. /// Documentamos los efectos de la destruccin inadvertida de nidos causada por el mantenimiento vial en la sobrevivencia, el xito reproductivo, y la dispersin de la lechuza llanera (Athene cunicularia) anidando en madrigueras naturales a lo largo del sistema de distribucin de agua del Imperial Valley de California. Las actividades afectaron cuatro nidos (7 lechuzas adultas) a lo largo de una seccin de 800 m de carretera, llenando o destruyendo todas las madrigueras. Tres de los siete adultos en el rea impactada murieron, dos de los dos nidos activos fallaron, dos nidos que haban fallado previamente fueron destruidos y puede ser por lo que los sobrevivientes adultos se dispersaron. Sugerimos que unas madrigueras artificiales pueden reducir el conflicto entre el mantenimiento y los nidos de la lechuza llanera, lo cual ser un beneficio para las lechuzas y para los propietarios de tierras.
20424739|Overall, trapping of brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater) on Fort Hood, Texas, has reduced parasitism on black-capped vireos (Vireo atricapilla). However, parasitism remained high (92.0% in 1999) on a disjunct, 20-ha patch of habitat. As an alternative to trapping, we shot cowbirds for 1 h per week in this patch during the 2000 and 2001 breeding seasons, removing up to 7 female cowbirds each season. Parasitism decreased following shooting (0 to 25%) and did not immediately revert to the pre-shooting level one year following the cessation of shooting. An increase in fledgling success from 0% prior to shooting to 75 to 100% following shooting suggests that shooting had a positive effect on vireo nest success. Our results from one study site suggest that minimal-effort shooting might be an effective alternative to trapping in mitigating cowbird parasitism threats. /// En general, el trampeo del tordo copete caf (Molothrus ater) en Fort Hood, Texas, ha reducido el parasitismo en el vireo de capa negra (Vireo atricapilla). Sin embargo, el parasitismo permaneci alto (92.0% en 1999) en un cercano parche de hbitat de 20 ha. Como alternativa al trampeo, pasamos una hora a la semana en este parche disparndoles a los tordos durante las temporadas reproductivas del 2000 y 2001 y removiendo hasta 7 hembras cada temporada. El parasitismo se redujo despus de los disparos (0-25%) y no volvi durante el siguiente ao a los niveles de antes de los disparos. Un incremento en el xito de la nidada de 0% antes de los disparos a 75 a 100% despus de los disparos sugiere que los disparos tuvieron un efecto positivo en el xito de la nidada en vireos. Nuestros resultados de un sitio de estudio sugieren que un esfuerzo mnimo en el uso de este tipo de control puede ser una alternativa efectiva al trampeo para mitigar las amenazas de parasitismo creadas por los tordos.
20424740|While monitoring songbird nests using video cameras in May 2005, we documented a woodrat (Neotoma) depredating an adult female and nestling yellow-eyed junco (Junco phaeonotus) in the Santa Catalina Mountains, Arizona. Based on elevation (2,750 m) and the forest type surrounding the depredated nest, we believe that the woodrat was probably N. mexicana (although we cannot exclude N. albigula). Woodrats are considered herbivorous and have never been observed depredating vertebrate prey. This observation demonstrates that woodrats have greater dietary plasticity than previously thought. /// Durante el monitoreo de nidos de aves con cmaras de video en mayo de 2005, documentamos a una rata (Neotoma) depredando a una hembra adulta y a un pollito de gorrin ojos amarillos (Junco phaeonotus) en las Montaas Santa Catalina, Arizona. Con base en la elevacin (2,750 m) y el tipo de bosque alrededor del nido depredado, creemos que la rata era probablemente N. mexicana (aunque no podemos excluir A. albigula). Ratas Neotoma son consideradas herbvoras y nunca han sido observadas depredando a presas vertebradas. Esta observacin demuestra que ratas Neotoma tienen una mayor plasticidad alimenticia de la que se haba pensado previamente.
20424741|Nyctinomops macrotis, the big free-tailed bat, is relatively uncommon in the south-western United States, and diet information for this species is sparse. The objective of this study was to examine the diet of N. macrotis in Big Bend National Park, Texas, by using fecal analysis to determine what these bats ate in an area where they were sympatric with 3 other species of free-tailed bats. We collected and analyzed fecal samples from 40 individuals and obtained the following results: Lepidoptera (87.5% volume, 100% frequency), Hemiptera (4.1% volume, 22.5% frequency), Coleoptera (4.6% volume, 17.5% frequency), Orthoptera (1.1% volume, 12.5% frequency), unidentified insects (2.4% volume, 30.0% frequency). The diet of N. macrotis largely overlapped that of the Mexican free-tailed bat (Tadarida brasiliensis) and pocketed free-tailed bat (Nyctinomops femorosaccus) in Big Bend National Park. However, N. macrotis consumed significantly more lepidopterans and significantly less hemipterans and coleopterans when compared to these other 2 molossid species. In addition, proportions of insects taken differed among the 3 bat species in some months. /// Nyctinomops macrotis, el murcilago-cola suelta mayor, es relativamente raro en el suroeste de los Estados Unidos y su informacin diettica es escasa. El objetivo de este estudio fue examinar la dieta de N. macrotis en Big Bend National Park, Texas, usando anlisis fecal para determinar lo que estos murcilagos comieron en una regin donde son simptricos con tres otras especies de murcilago-cola suelta. Recogimos y analizamos muestras fecales de 40 individuos y obtuvimos los resultados siguientes: Lepidptera (87.5% volumen, 100% frecuencia); Hemptera (4.1% volumen, 22.5% frecuencia); Coleptera (4.6% volumen, 17.5% frecuencia); Orthptera (1.1% volumen, 12.5% frecuencia); insectos sin identificacin (2.4% volumen, 30.0% frecuencia). La dieta de N. macrotis mayormente se traslap con la del murcilago guanero (Tadarida brasiliensis) y la del murcilago-cola suelta de bolsa (Nyctinomops femorosaccus) en el Parque National Big Bend. Sin embargo, N. macrotis consumi significativamente ms Lepidpteros y significativamente menos Hempteros y Colepteros comparado con las otras dos especies. Adems, las proporciones de insectos comidos difirieron entre las tres especies de murcilagos durante algunos meses.
20424742|A male gray bat (Myotis grisescens) was discovered on private property in Tishomingo County, northeastern Mississippi, on 20 September 2004. The endangered gray bat previously had been known only from a site known as Chalk Mine in the northeastern corner of the county, where it was last documented in 1967. The 2004 specimen was recorded approximately 42 km south of the Chalk Mine site. The discovery of this specimen is noteworthy because it represents the first gray bat documented for the state of Mississippi in 37 years. /// Un murcilago macho (Myotis grisescens) fue descubierto en una propiedad privada en el condado de Tishomingo, del noreste de Mississippi, el 20 de septiembre del 2004. El murcilago, una especie en peligro de extincin, slo se haba encontrado en un lugar conocido como Chalk Mine en la esquina noreste del condado en el ao 1967. El espcimen del 2004 fue registrado aproximadamente 42 km al sur de Chalk Mine. El descubrimiento de este espcimen es significativo debido a que representa el primer murcilago registrado de Myotis grisescens en 37 aos en el estado de Mississippi.
20424743|The range of the eastern pipistrelle (Pipistrellus subflavus) recently has expanded westward in the United States. New records of this species have been reported along the entire western boundary of its range from South Dakota to Texas. In August 2004, we captured an adult, male eastern pipistrelle at Carlsbad Caverns National Park in southeastern New Mexico. Our record represents the second capture of this species in New Mexico and the first in the southern part of the state. Because no eastern pipistrelle was captured at this site during previous surveys (1973 to 2003), this record represents the continued westward expansion of the distribution of this species in the United States. /// Recientemente, la distribucin de Pipistrellus subflavus se ha extendido hacia el oeste de los Estados Unidos. Registros nuevos de esta especie han sido reportados a lo largo de todo el lmite occidental de su distribucin desde South Dakota hasta Texas. En agosto del 2004, apresamos un macho adulto en Carlsbad Caverns National Park en el sudeste de Nuevo Mxico. Nuestro registro representa la segunda captura de esta especie en Nuevo Mxico, y la primera en la parte del sur del estado. Ya que ningn Pipistrellus subflavus fue apresado en este sitio durante muestreos anteriores (1973-2003), este registro representa la expansin continua occidental de la distribucin de esta especie en los Estados Unidos.
20424744|Flight speeds of adult common vampire bats (Desmodus rotundus) were investigated in Colima, Mexico, during 2005. Individuals were captured in a small abandoned irrigation tunnel and transported to a nearby flyway (simulated cave passage) constructed in forested habitat. Using stopwatches, rates of travel were measured over a known distance. Males averaged 13.82 km/h (range 9.6 to 27.3 km/h; n = 18) and females 13.36 km/h (range 7.2 to 23.4 km/h; n = 29). Flight speeds of males and females were not significantly different. Contrary to some previous studies, no significant correlation was found between length of forearm and flight speed. Our findings provide the first report of flight speeds for D. rotundus. /// La velocidad de vuelo de murcilagos adultos del vampiro comn (Desmodus rotundus) fue analizada en Colima, Mxico, durante el 2005. Los individuos fueron capturados en un pequeo tnel de riego abandonado y se transportaron a un tnel artificial cercano (que simulaba el paso de una cueva), construido entre la vegetacin forestal del lugar. Las tasas de vuelo fueron medidas sobre una distancia conocida con ayuda de cronmetros. Los machos promediaron 13.82 km/h (variacin de 9.6 a 27.3 km/h; n = 18) y las hembras 13.36 km/h (variacin de 7.2 a 23.4 km/h; n = 29). Las velocidades de vuelo de los machos y las hembras no fueron significativamente diferentes. Contrario a algunos estudios previos, no se encontr una correlacin significativa entre la longitud del antebrazo y la velocidad de vuelo. Nuestros resultados proveen el primer reporte de la velocidad de vuelo para D. rotundus.
20424745|Mearns's squirrel (Tamiasciurus mearnsi) is an endemic species of the montane forest of the Sierra de San Pedro Mrtir in Baja California. Despite having been described for the first time in 1893 and a listing as threatened by Mexican authorities, no information is available on the ecology of this southernmost Tamiasciurus. We observed the ecology of Mearns's squirrels during 2004 and 2005. Mearns's squirrel apparently does not form larderhoards, known as middens, or leaf nests commonly built by other members of this genus. We observed Mearns's squirrels to feed heavily on tree seeds and fungi. We noted males with scrotal testes and a female in estrus in late spring. We did not observe eastern gray squirrels (Sciurus carolinensis), introduced to the western Sierra in 1946, within the areas that we searched for T. mearnsi. Mearns's squirrels might possess unique adaptations for their persistence in the dry, open forest of the Sierra de San Pedro Mrtir. /// La ardilla de San Pedro Mrtir (Tamiasciurus mearnsi) es una especie endmica del bosque de montaa de la Sierra de San Pedro Mrtir en Baja California. A pesar de haber sido descrita por primera vez en 1893 y a que se encuentra catalogada como amenazada por las autoridades mexicanas, no hay informacin disponible sobre la ecologa de esta Tamiasciurus ms austral. Observamos la ecologa de las ardillas de San Pedro Mrtir durante 2004 y 2005. La ardilla San Pedro Mrtir parece no formar cmulos de comida conocidos como basurales, o nidos de hoja comnmente construidos por otros miembros de este gnero. Observamos a las ardillas de San Pedro Mrtir alimentarse principalmente de las semillas de los rboles y de hongos; notamos machos con testculos escrotados y una hembra en celo a finales de la primavera. No observamos a las ardillas Sciurus carolinensis, introducidas en la parte oeste de la Sierra en 1946, dentro de las reas donde buscamos a las T. mearnsi. Las ardillas de San Pedro Mrtir pueden poseer adaptaciones nicas para su persistencia en el bosque abierto y seco de la Sierra de San Pedro Mrtir.
20424746|The desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana) was extirpated from most of its range in northern Mexico and the southwestern United States by the 1980s. Several populations have been established through reintroductions in both countries, but none in the Chihuahua-Sonora border region, where we report here 3 recent records. These records suggest the possibility of reintroducing bighorn sheep in northwestern Chihuahua and northeastern Sonora to increase the long-term viability of the species in the region. /// El borrego cimarrn (Ovis canadensis mexicana) fue extirpado de la mayor parte de su rea de distribucin en el norte de Mxico y el suroeste de los Estados Unidos hacia la dcada de 1980. Mediante reintroducciones, se han establecido varias poblaciones en ambos pases, pero ninguna en la regin fronteriza entre Chihuahua y Sonora, de donde se reportan 3 registros en esta nota, indicando la posibilidad de reintroducir al borrego cimarrn en el noroeste de Chihuahua y noreste de Sonora para incrementar la viabilidad a largo plazo de la especie en al regin.
20424747|Bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) occasionally have small, procumbent maxillary canines that do not penetrate the gums. However, the frequency of these vestigial teeth is only 3%. We collected 25 skulls from an isolated and indigenous population of bighorn sheep in the Silver Bell Mountains, Arizona. We compared the frequency of maxillary canines with data reported in scientific literature and in the mammalogy collection at the University of Arizona, and found a significantly higher frequency of maxillary canines in bighorn sheep skulls from the Silver Bell Mountains than in skulls collected throughout the southwestern United States. We separated skulls by sex and age and found that male and female skulls (&gt;6 months of age at death) from the Silver Bell Mountains both had a significantly higher frequency of maxillary canines than did skulls from the Southwest. Lamb skulls (&lt;6 months of age at death) exhibited a higher frequency of maxillary canines than did lamb skulls from throughout the Southwest; however, our small sample size (Silver Bell, n = 5; Southwest, n = 12) was statistically inconclusive. The trait for maxillary canines might be maintained or inflated because of genetic isolation from other bighorn sheep populations. /// Los borregos cimarrones (Ovis canadensis) tienen ocasionalmente pequeos colmillos maxilares acostados que no penetran las encas. Sin embargo, la frecuencia de estos dientes vestigiales es solamente del 3%. Recogimos 25 crneos de borregos cimarrones de una poblacin aislada y nativa en las montaas Silver Bell, Arizona. Comparamos la frecuencia de los colmillos maxilares con los datos obtenidos de la literatura cientfica y en la coleccin de mamferos de la Universidad de Arizona, y encontramos una frecuencia significativamente ms alta de colmillos maxilares en los crneos de O. canadensis de las montaas Silver Bell que en los recogidos a travs del suroeste de los Estados Unidos. Separamos los crneos por sexo y edad y encontramos que tanto los crneos de machos como los de las hembras (&gt;6 meses de edad a la muerte) de las montaas Silver Bell tenan una frecuencia ms alta de los colmillos maxilares que los crneos del suroeste de USA. Los crneos de los cabritos (&lt;6 meses de edad a la muerte) exhibieron una frecuencia ms alta de los colmillos maxilares que los crneos a travs del suroeste de USA; sin embargo, nuestro pequeo tamao de muestra (Silver Bell, n = 5; suroeste, n = 12) fue estadsticamente inconcluso. La caracterstica de tener colmillos maxilares se puede mantener o aumentar debido al aislamiento gentico de otras poblaciones de borregos cimarrones.
20424748|The behavior of startled desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) has been described, but distances moved after being startled have not been reported. We located 8 radio-collared deer (6 females, 2 males) for 8 mo, intentionally approaching them afoot until we startled them, waited 15 min, and relocated them (90 min). The deer were startled and relocated 56 times. Mean time elapsed between startling and relocation was 34.5 min (SE = 3.9 min). Mean distance moved was 893.2 m. When researchers disturb mule deer before obtaining data describing movement or habitat use, they should abandon their attempts for 24 h to avoid bias in those data. /// El comportamiento de los venados buros del desierto (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) cuando se asustan ha sido descrito, pero la distancia que se desplazan despus de ser asustados no ha sido registrada Monitoreamos 8 venados (6 hembras, 2 machos) con radio-collares por 8 meses, acercndonos intencionalmente a pie hasta que los asustamos, esperamos 15 min y los volvimos a localizar (&lt;90 min). Los venados fueron asustados y localizados nuevamente 56 veces. El tiempo medio que transcurri entre asustar al animal y la relocalizacin fue de 34.5 min (ES = 3.9 min). La distancia media que los animales se trasladaron fue de 893.2 m. Cuando los investigadores molestan a los venados, antes de obtener datos sobre los desplazamientos o el uso del hbitat, deben dejarlos por 24 h para evitar sesgo en los datos.
20424753|The Tecate cypress (Cupressus forbesii) is a tree species associated with chaparral ecosystems in southern California and northern Baja California, Mexico. It is fire-adapted, its regeneration triggered by the opening of serotinous cones when adult trees are burned. Surveys made in the 1980s by others suggested that some Tecate cypress populations were declining, and some authors suggested that increased fire frequency in southern California was a major factor for this decline. We asked whether current population trends were still negative for Tecate cypress 20 years later, and whether population growth was associated with fire return interval length. Based on demographic, survival, and growth-rate data, we calculated the rate of population increase () for the 4 known California populations of Tecate cypress (Coal Canyon-Sierra Peak in Orange County and Guatay Mountain, Otay Mountain, and Tecate Peak in San Diego County). The rate of population increase was positively associated with fire return interval length, which varied among populations. A 40-year or longer fire return interval corresponded to  &gt; 1, suggesting the population trend is positive, while a fire return interval shorter than 40 years corresponded to  &lt; 1, suggesting that populations burning more often than once every 40 years are declining. /// El ciprs Tecate (Cupressus forbesii) es una especie de rbol asociado con el ecosistema chaparral del sur de California y Baja California Norte, Mxico. Est adaptado al fuego, su regeneracin se inicia con la apertura de los conos serotoninos cuando los rboles adultos son quemados. Investigaciones en los aos 1980 sugirieron que algunas poblaciones de ciprs Tecate estaban declinando, y algunos investigadores sugirieron que el incremento en la frecuencia de fuegos en el sur de California fue una causa importante de este decline. Nosotros preguntamos si las tendencias poblacionales actuales todava eran negativas para el ciprs Tecate 20 aos ms tarde, y si el crecimiento de la poblacin estuvo relacionado con la frecuencia de los incendios. Basados en datos de demografa, supervivencia y tasa de crecimiento, calculamos la tasa de crecimiento de la poblacin () de las cuatro poblaciones conocidas de ciprs Tecate en California (Coal Canyon-Sierra Peak en el condado de Orange y Guatay Mountain, Otay Mountain, y Tecate Peak en el condado de San Diego). La tasa de incremento de la poblacin estuvo relacionada positivamente con el lapso de tiempo entre fuegos, la cual vari entre poblaciones. Un intervalo de 40 aos o ms de regreso de fuego correspondi a  &gt; 1, sugiriendo que la tendencia poblacional es positiva, mientras que un intervalo de menos de 40 aos en el retorno del fuego correspondi a  &lt; 1, sugiriendo que poblaciones que se queman ms frecuentemente que una vez cada 40 aos estn disminuyendo.
20424754|Volcanic eruptions offer unique opportunities for the study of successional processes. The Paricutn Volcano eruption that started in 1943 and lasted for 9 years created different conditions for primary and secondary succession. Bare areas at the time of the eruption (mainly agricultural fields) offer an opportunity to study the effect of major natural disturbances in sites previously affected by human activities. One representative area, the Mesa de Cutzato, was surveyed to determine vegetation species composition and structure 50 years after the volcanic eruption ceased. Our results showed that few species have established and that total plant cover remained low (&lt; 10%) and is patchy. Four species dominated these patches: Eupatorium glabratum (23% relative cover), Senecio stoechadiformis (14%), Senecio salignus (12%) and Muhlenbergia minutissima (6%). These species are either early successional or disturbance-tolerant species. No late successional species, particularly tree species, were found. Our results suggested that in old agricultural fields covered by tephra, known as arenales, succession is proceeding slowly. /// Las erupciones volcnicas ofrecen oportunidades nicas para el estudio de los procesos sucesionales. La erupcin del volcn Paricutn que inici en 1943 y que dur nueve aos cre diferentes condiciones para la sucesin primaria y secundaria. Areas desprovistas de vegetacin cuando se inici la erupcin (en su mayora campos agrcolas) ofrecen una oportunidad para estudiar el efecto de perturbaciones naturales de grandes proporciones en sitios previamente afectados por actividades humanas. Un rea representativa, la Mesa de Cutzato, fue estudiada para determinar la composicin de especies de la vegetacin y la estructura despus de 50 aos de que concluy la erupcin volcnica. Nuestros resultados indican que pocas especies se han establecido y que la cobertura vegetal total es baja (&lt; 10%) y en manchones. Cuatro especies dominaron estos manchones de vegetacin: Eupatorium glabratum (23% de cobertura relativa), Senecio stoechadiformis (14%), Senecio salignus (12%) and Muhlenbergia minutissima (6%). Estas especies son caractersticas de etapas tempranas de la sucesin o tolerantes a condiciones de perturbacin. No se encontraron especies de etapas sucesionales tardas, particularmente especies arbreas. Nuestros resultados sugirieron que en terrenos agrcolas cubiertos por tepra, conocidos como arenales, la sucesin sigue muy lenta.
20424755|A crucial need for population maintenance of epiphytic species is the location of suitable microsites on a host tree. Quantitative evaluation of epiphyte seed dispersal and germination is needed to more fully understand successful host colonization; this process is especially important in dry forests, where drought and oligotrophy diminish population growth rates. In a 3-year field experiment, we evaluated seed dispersal and germination of Tillandsia brachycaulos and explored some environmental factors affecting these life-cycle phases. There was significant variation in dispersal curves depending on year and height of seed release. Forty-one percent of seeds experimentally released were not dispersed and only ca. 0.5% of dispersed seeds were captured in seed traps. The number of trapped seeds decreased with distance; most seeds were captured within 1.5 m of the seed source. Seeds dispersed farther (15 m) when released from greater heights. Seed germination under controlled conditions (98%) was higher than in a field experiment (3%). Neither year nor tree height significantly affected germination of T. brachycaulos. Differences in seed dispersal and germination among years could result from variable precipitation. Establishment of new genets seems to be an important bottleneck for population growth in T. brachycaulos. Our results show that seed dispersal and germination are processes that determine such establishment. /// Una necesidad crucial para el mantenimiento de las poblaciones de especies epfitas es la localizacin de micrositios adecuados en el rbol hospedero. Se necesita una evaluacin cuantitativa de la dispersin y germinacin de semillas de las epfitas del epfita para entender mejor la colonizacin exitosa; dicho proceso es particularmente importante en bosques secos, donde la sequa y la oligotrofa disminuyen las tasas de crecimiento poblacional. En un experimento de campo durante tres aos, evaluamos la dispersin y germinacin de semillas de Tillandsia brachycaulos y exploramos algunos factores ambientales que afectan estas fases del ciclo de vida. Las curvas de dispersin mostraron una variacin significante, dependiendo en el ao y la altura de la liberacin de las semillas. El 41% de las semillas liberadas experimentalmente no fueron dispersadas y solamente cerca del 0.5% de las semillas dispersadas fueron capturadas en trampas de semillas. El nmero de semillas capturadas disminuy a medida que se increment la distancia, la mayora de las semillas se capturaron en los primeros 1.5 m de la fuente de semillas. Las semillas dispersadas a distancias ms largas (15 m) provenan de las fuentes ubicadas a mayor altura. La germinacin de semillas en el laboratorio fue mayor (98%) que la encontrada en campo (3%). Ni el ao ni la altura del rbol afect la germinacin en una manera estadsticamente significativa. Las diferencias en la dispersin y la germinacin de semillas entre aos podran ser causadas por la precipitacin variable. El establecimiento de nuevos individuos es, al parecer, un cuello de botella importante en el crecimiento poblacional de T. brahcycaulos. Nuestros resultados muestran que la dispersin y la germinacin son procesos determinantes en dicho establecimiento.
20424756|Purple loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria) constitutes an invasive species detrimental to wetland habitats in North America. To estimate areas vulnerable to it in Kansas, we modeled the potential geographic distribution of the species by using current records in the state, remotely sensed vegetationindex data from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectrometer (MODIS), and the Genetic Algorithm for Rule-Set Prediction (GARP). Models built using only localities from northeastern Kansas (the origin of invasion within the state) consistently predicted test localities in other parts of the state with negligible omission. An additional analysis using records from all counties where the species is known showed a similar prediction. All models indicated suitable conditions for purple loosestrife in much of eastern and central Kansas, as well as in riverine and irrigated areas in the western part of the state. The approach presented here might prove useful for assessing the regional colonization potential of other newly detected invasive species before other studies can be undertaken. /// Lythrum salicaria constituye una especie invasora perjudicial para los hbitats pantanosos en Norteamrica. Para estimar cules son las reas vulnerables a esta especie en Kansas, modelamos la distribucin potencial de la especie utilizando registros actuales del estado, datos de ndices de vegetacin tomados remotamente por el Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectrometer (MODIS), y el Genetic Algorithm for Rule-Set Prediction (GARP). Modelos construidos usando slo las localidades del noreste de Kansas (el origen de la invasin dentro del estado) predijeron consistentemente a las localidades de prueba en otras partes del estado con omisin despreciable. Un anlisis adicional usando registros de todos los condados en los cuales se conoce que la especie est presente mostr una prediccin similar. Todos los modelos indicaron condiciones apropiadas para la especie en la mayor parte del este y del centro de Kansas, tanto como en reas ribereas e irrigadas en la parte occidental del estado. El enfoque presentado aqu posiblemente ser de utilidad en la evaluacin del potencial de colonizacin regional de otras especies invasoras recientemente detectadas antes de que otros estudios puedan ser realizados.
20424757|Nickel hyperaccumulator plants contain at least 1,000 g Ni/g dry mass. Their high-Ni tissues present a chemically unique resource for herbivorous insects. A prior survey of insects associated with the Ni hyperaccumulator Streptanthus polygaloides in California yielded a new species, Melanotrichus boydi Schwartz and Wall (Hemiptera: Miridae). Here we document the host preference of M. boydi. Surveys of 10 S. polygaloides populations across its geographical and elevational ranges documented the presence of M. boydi upon S. polygaloides at all sites. A host-choice experiment contrasting M. boydi with the polyphagous mirid Lygus hesperus (both collected from S. polygaloides) showed M. boydi preferred S. polygaloides but L. hesperus did not. Other host-choice studies showed M. boydi preferred S. polygaloides to 2 other ultramafic soil plant species in the Brassicaceae, including another species of Streptanthus. No preference was observed when M. boydi was offered samples from several populations of S. polygaloides or given a choice between high-Ni and low-Ni S. polygaloides plants. These results show that M. boydi feeds primarily on S. polygaloides but lacks population-level specificity. This is the first report of a North American insect species monophagous on a Ni hyperaccumulator species. /// Las plantas hiperacumuladoras de nquel contienen al menos 1,000 g Ni/g de peso seco. Sus tejidos con altas concentraciones de Ni representan un recurso qumico nico para los insectos herbvoros. Un estudio previo de los insectos asociados a la especie hiperacumuladora de Ni Streptanthus polygaloides en California condujo al hallazgo de una nueva especie, Melanotrichus boydi Schwartz y Wall (Hemiptera: Miridae). En el presente trabajo se documenta la preferencia en cuanto a hospedero de M. boydi. La investigacin en diez poblaciones de S. polygaloides a lo largo de su distribucin geogrfica y altitudinal document la presencia de M. boydi en todos los sitios donde S. polygaloides creca. Un experimento de seleccin de hospedero contrastando M. boydi con la chinche ligus Lygus hesperus (ambos colectados en S. polygaloides) mostr que M. boydi prefiri S. polygaloides mientras que L. hesperus no. Otros estudios de seleccin evidenciaron que M. boydi prefiri S. polygaloides antes que otras dos especies de Brassicaceae de suelos ultramficos, incluyendo otra especie de Streptanthus. No se observ preferencia cuando a M. boydi se le ofrecieron muestras de varias poblaciones de S. polygaloides ni cuando se le dio a escoger entre plantas de S. polygaloides con concentraciones altas o bajas de Ni. Estos resultados muestran que M. boydi se alimenta primariamente de S. polygaloides pero carece de especificidad a nivel poblacional. Este constituye el primer registro de un insecto norteamericano monfago de una especie hiperacumuladora de Ni.
20424758|Humans have introduced organisms into many new and often novel environments. These changes in organism distributions provide us an opportunity to directly observe the ecological and evolutionary processes that influence adaptation. Here we examine the suitability of a variety of introduced legume species, plus several non-host native species, for the development of Stator limbatus larvae. About half of the species examined were capable of supporting larval development, though larval survival was high on few non-host species. Maternal experiences during egg maturation affected larval survival on seeds of Parkinsonia aculeata and Ebenopsis ebano, but not on any other non-hosts; females that matured eggs in contact with seeds of Parkinsonia florida, a native host of S. limbatus in the Sonoran Desert, produced larger eggs and had offspring with higher survival on seeds of these 2 exotic species than if females did not encounter P. florida during egg maturation. Using a half-sib breeding design, we detected genetic variation in larval survival on seeds of P. aculeata, but found that maternal experience during egg maturation (whether or not females encountered seeds of P. florida) was the major factor affecting offspring survival on P. aculeata. We conclude that the ability of S. limbatus larvae to survive on some non-native plant species depends on the species composition of the local plant community female experiences with P. florida induce changes in egg size and composition that subsequently influence survival of larvae on seeds of the novel host, P. aculeata. /// El ser humano ha introducido organismos en una gran variedad de ambientes que con frecuencia son nuevos para las especies introducidas. Estos cambios en las distribuciones de los organismos brindan una oportunidad para observar directamente los procesos ecolgicos y evolutivos que influyen la adaptacin. En este trabajo se examina la idoneidad de una variedad de especies de legumbres introducidas, ms algunas especies autctonas no-hospederas, para el desarrollo de las larvas de Stator limbatus. Aproximadamente la mitad de las especies examinadas fueron capaces de sostener el desarrollo larvario, aunque la supervivencia de las larvas fue alta en pocas especies no-hospederas. Experiencia maternal durante el perodo de maduracin de los huevos afect la supervivencia de las larvas en las semillas de Parkinsonia aculeata y Ebenopsis ebano, pero no en ningn otro no-hospedero; las hembras que maduraron huevos en contacto con las semillas de Parkinsonia florida, un hospedero nativo de S. limbatus en el desierto de Sonora, produjeron huevos ms grandes y cras con una mayor tasa de supervivencia en semillas de estas 2 especies exticas que si las hembras no encontraron a P. florida durante la maduracin de los huevos. Usando un diseo de cruzar medio-hermanos, se detect variacin gentica en la supervivencia en las semillas de P. aculeata pero se mostr que la experiencia maternal durante la maduracin de los huevos (independientemente de si las hembras estuvieron en contacto con semillas de P. florida o no) fue el factor ms importante que afect la supervivencia de las cras en P. aculeata. Se concluye que la capacidad de las larvas de S. limbatus de sobrevivir en algunas especies de plantas no autctonas depende de la composicin de especies de la comunidad vegetal local -- la experiencia de las hembras con P. florida induce cambios en el tamao y composicin de los huevos que afecta de manera subsiguiente la supervivencia de las larvas en las semillas de una planta hospedera nueva, P. aculeata.
20424759|The distribution and abundance of the endangered Baja California killifish, Fundulus lima, and its interaction with exotic fishes were studied in oases of the central part of Baja California peninsula, Mexico (Ro San Ignacio and Ro La Pursima basins), from October 2002 to July 2004. Five fish species were recorded: the native killifish and 4 exotics (Cyprinus carpio, Poecilia reticulata, Xiphophorus hellerii, and Tilapia cf. zillii). Two new populations of the killifish are reported for the Rio San Ignacio as well as confirmation of occurrence in the upper Ro La Pursima. Density of the killifish in the Ro San Ignacio showed a significant inverse correlation with that of the exotic redbelly tilapia (Tilapia cf. zillii). Baja California killifish densities in both rivers decreased significantly after the hurricane-induced flood event of 23 September 2003, but exhibited notable recovery 10 months later. Relative abundance of killifish at the type locality, San Ignacio oasis, decreased significantly during an 8-year period after introduction of tilapia. The status of Baja California killifish should be changed from threatened to endangered to reflect continued reductions in distribution as result of proliferation of nonnative fishes, particularly redbelly tilapia. Management efforts to reduce abundance of exotic fishes are needed to ensure persistence of the endemic Baja California killifish. /// La distribucin y abundancia de la sardinilla peninsular en peligro de extincin, Fundulus lima, y su interaccin con peces exticos, fueron estudiados en oasis de la parte central de la pennsula de Baja California, Mxico (cuencas ro San Ignacio y ro La Pursima), de octubre 2002 a julio 2004. Cinco especies cticas fueron registradas, la nativa sardinilla peninsular y cuatro exticas (Cyprinus carpio, Poecilia reticulata, Xiphophorus hellerii y Tilapia cf. zillii). Dos poblaciones nuevas de la sardinilla peninsular son reportadas para el ro San Ignacio, y se confirma adems su presencia en la cabecera del ro La Pursima. La densidad de la sardinilla peninsular en sitios del ro San Ignacio demostr una correlacin inversa significativa con aqulla del cclido extico Tilapia cf. zillii. Las densidades de la sardinilla en ambos ros disminuyeron significativamente despus del evento de inundacin causado por el huracn del 23 septiembre 2003, pero exhibieron una marcada recuperacin diez meses despus. La abundancia relativa de la sardinilla disminuy radicalmente en la localidad tipo, el oasis de San Ignacio, en un lapso de 8 aos despus de la introduccin de la tilapia. El estatus de conservacin de la sardinilla peninsular debe ser cambiado de amenazado a en peligro de extincin, reflejando reducciones continuas en distribucin como resultado de la proliferacin de peces no nativos, particularmente de la tilapia. Esfuerzos de manejo para reducir la abundancia de peces exticos son requeridos para asegurar la persistencia de la sardinilla peninsular endmica.
20424760|Two atherinid species, Labidesthes sicculus (brook silverside) and Menidia beryllina (inland silverside), often co-occur in North American reservoirs. Menidia beryllina is a superior competitor for zooplankton and has displaced Labidesthes in a number of reservoir habitats. In Lake Texoma (Oklahoma-Texas), Labidesthes was thought extirpated from the reservoir after introduction of Menidia in the 1950s, but several recent populations were discovered in down-lake coves with established marinas. Artificial lighting from marinas might benefit Labidesthes by attracting terrestrial insects in these habitats. We conducted a field experiment to test effects of artificial lighting and abundance of Menidia on growth and diet of Labidesthes. Dry weight of Labidesthes at the end of our experiment was significantly higher in artificially lit treatments than in dark treatments, but there was no significant effect of Menidia abundance on weight of Labidesthes. We concluded this effect was attributed to greater availability of dipterans, which dominated the diet of Labidesthes, under artificial lights. Whereas Menidia is a more efficient planktivore than Labidesthes, increased abundance of dipterans near marinas likely promotes the coexistence of these 2 species. /// Dos especies Aternidos, Labidesthes sicculus y Menidia beryllina (charal de marea), suelen co-ocurrir en los embalses norteamericanos. Menidia beryllina es un competidor superior para zooplanctn y ha desplazado a Labidesthes en numerosos hbitats. En el lago Texoma (Oklahoma-Texas), se crea que Labidesthes haba sido extirpado del embalse despus de la introduccin de Menidia en los aos cincuenta, pero se han descubierto recientemente poblaciones co-ocurrentes en ensenadas con marinas establecidas. La iluminacin artificial de las marinas puede beneficiar a Labidesthes atrayendo insectos terrestres en estos hbitats. Llevamos a cabo un experimento para probar los efectos de la iluminacin artificial y de la abundancia de Menidia en el crecimiento y la dieta de Labidesthes. El peso seco de Labidesthes al final del experimento fue significativamente mayor en los tratamientos de iluminacin artificial que en los tratamientos no iluminados, pero no hubo un efecto significativo de la abundancia de Menidia en el peso de Labidesthes. Concluimos que este efecto fue atribuido a una disponibilidad ms grande de dpteros, que dominaron la dieta de Labidesthes, bajo luz artificial. Ya sea que Menidia sea un planctvoro ms eficiente que Labidesthes, la mayor abundancia de dpteros cerca de las marinas probablemente promueve la coexistencia de las dos especies.
20424761|Understanding how and why the abundance of a species changes in space and time is an essential component to effective endangered species conservation. Key to this understanding is being able to distinguish natural population dynamics from a downward trajectory of a species at risk of extinction. For many species in arid environments, rainfall drives population changes. This is the case for Coachella Valley fringe-toed lizards (Uma inornata), a species listed as threatened under the U.S. Endangered Species Act. At low rainfall levels, the lizards exhibit negative population growth until annual precipitation exceeds 40 to 50 mm. Fluctuation in the population growth of the lizards is also correlated with changes in their diet. A regression model using rainfall and diet to explain lizard population dynamics resulted in a significant R2 value of 0.956. Because drought is common in their arid environment, it is not unusual for this lizard species to endure consecutive years of population declines. Fringe-toed lizard population counts during extended droughts often approach zero, yet the populations quickly rebound during periods of near average rainfall. If counts approaching zero are not reliable thresholds for when remedial management actions are warranted, then monitoring based management decisions need to use criteria that are more heuristic. Departures from the rainfall-dietpopulation growth model might provide the signal needed for management actions. /// El entendimiento de cmo y porqu la abundancia de especies cambia en espacio y tiempo es un componente esencial para la efectiva conservacin de especies en peligro de extincin. La clave para dicho entendimiento es poder distinguir entre la dinmica natural de las poblaciones y la trayectoria descendiente de una especie en riesgo de extincin. Para muchas especies en ambientes ridos, las lluvias conducen a cambios poblacionales. Este es el caso para la lagartija del Valle de Coachella (Uma inornata), especie listada como amenazada dentro del Acta de Especies en Peligro de Extincin de USA. Las lagartijas en niveles bajos de lluvia muestran un crecimiento poblacional negativo hasta que la precipitacin anual excede 40-50 mm. Las fluctuaciones en el crecimiento poblacional de las lagartijas estn tambin correlacionadas con los cambios en su dieta. Un modelo de regresin utilizando lluvias y dieta para explicar la dinmica poblacional de las lagartijas result en un R2 significativo de 0.956. Debido a que la sequa es comn en su ambiente rido, no es inusual para esta especie de lagartija el soportar consecutivamente declinacin en las poblaciones a travs de los aos. Los conteos poblacionales de Uma inornata durante sequas extensas usualmente se acercan a cero, sin embargo las poblaciones se reponen rpidamente durante periodos cercanos al promedio de precipitacin. Si los conteos que resultan en cero no son confiables para justificar el manejo correctivo, entonces las decisiones de manejo basadas en el monitoreo necesitan usar un criterio ms heurstico. Desviaciones del modelo de crecimiento poblacional con lluvias y dieta pueden proveer de informacin necesaria para acciones de conservacin.
20424762|Various grassland bird species have displayed population declines over the past 30 to 40 years, and interest in explaining possible causes for the declines has prompted numerous studies. Many of these studies have focused on changes in agricultural practices; few have evaluated possible effects of the presence of nonnative grasses in grasslands. The objective of our study was to determine the effects a nonnative grass, Old World bluestem (OWB; Bothriochloa ischaemum), might have on grassland bird species abundance and richness, and on bird food availability (arthropod biomass). Three pastures each of native range, expired Conservation Reserve Program (CRP), and OWB were sampled from May to July 2001 in Comanche County, Kansas. Bird abundance and species richness were assessed by using a point-count method along 3 transects in each pasture. Food availability was estimated by collecting arthropods along 10 transects in each pasture by sweep-netting. Results showed significantly lower bird abundance and species richness in OWB pastures than in native pastures. OWB pastures also had significantly less arthropod biomass than native pastures. Because food availability (arthropod biomass) was directly related to percent forb cover within fields and was mostly absent in OWB pastures, we contend these were the primary factors contributing to lower avian richness and abundance in OWB fields when compared to CRP and native pastures. /// 4;Varias especies de aves de los pastizales han demostrado una reduccin en su poblacin durante los ltimos 30-40 aos, esto ha impulsado un gran nmero de estudios tratando de explicar las posibles causas de esas reducciones. Muchos de estos estudios se han dirigido hacia los cambios en las prcticas agrcolas, otros pocos han evaluado los posibles efectos de la presencia de pastos no nativos en los pastizales. El objetivo de nuestro estudio fue determinar los efectos que pudiera tener la presencia del pasto no nativo Old World Bluestem (OWB; Bothriochloa ischaemum) sobre la abundancia y la riqueza de las especies de aves del pastizal y la disponibilidad de alimento para ellas (biomasa de artrpodos). Se muestrearon tres pastizales de pastos nativos en el inactivo Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) y en pastizales con OWB de mayo a julio de 2001 en el condado Comanche en Kansas. La abundancia de las aves y la riqueza de las especies fueron estimadas por un mtodo de conteo de puntos a lo largo de tres transectos de muestreo en cada localidad. La disponibilidad de alimento se estim colectando artrpodos por medio de redes a lo largo de 10 transectos en cada lugar. Los resultados mostraron una abundancia de aves y riqueza de especies significativamente ms bajas en los pastizales con OWB que en los pastizales de pasto nativo. Los pastizales con OWB tambin mostraron significativamente menos biomasa de artrpodos que en los pastizales nativos. Debido a que la disponibilidad de alimento (biomasa de artrpodos) estuvo directamente relacionada al porcentaje de cubierta de herbceas dentro de los campos y estuvo casi ausente en los pastizales de OWB, sostenemos que estos fueron los factores principales que contribuyeron a la baja en riqueza y abundancia de aves en los pastizales con OWB cuando se compararon con los pastizales de pastos nativos en el CRP.
20424763|The Chiricahua fox squirrel (Sciurus nayaritensis chiricahuae) is an uncommon subspecies endemic to the Chiricahua Mountains of southeastern Arizona. We monitored annual cycles of body mass and reproduction to elucidate factors shaping the ecology of the sexes. Body mass of adult males did not fluctuate seasonally, although males tended to be heavier in winter. Body mass of adult females fluctuated seasonally, with lower body masses in summer than winter. Males and females did not differ in body mass in summer and fall, but females were heavier than males in winter and spring. Males with scrotal testes were found in the population during all seasons, but were especially prevalent in winter and spring. The majority of lactating females were present in spring and summer. Annual cycles in reproduction and body mass of Chiricahua fox squirrels are similar to more widespread species of tree squirrels, although males did not exhibit typical body mass fluctuations. Extreme spatial and temporal fluctuations of food experienced by Chiricahua fox squirrels might result in annual patterns in space use and body mass that differ from tree squirrels living in forests with a greater abundance of food. /// La ardilla zorro (Sciurus nayaritensis chiricahuae) es una subespecie infrecuente y endmica de las montaas de Chiricahua del sureste de Arizona. Monitoreamos el ciclo anual de la masa corporal y de la reproduccin para incrementar la informacin sobre la ecologa de los sexos. La masa corporal de los machos adultos no fluctu estacionalmente, aunque los machos tendieron a pesar ms en invierno. La masa corporal de las hembras adultas fluctu estacionalmente, con masas ms bajas en verano que en invierno. Los machos y las hembras no se diferenciaron en masa en verano y otoo, pero las hembras pesaron ms que los machos en invierno y primavera. Se encontraron machos con testculos escrotales en la poblacin durante todas las estaciones, pero fueron especialmente frecuentes en invierno y primavera. La mayora de hembras en lactancia estuvieron presentes en primavera y verano. Los ciclos anuales en la masa corporal y en la reproduccin de las ardillas zorro de Chiricahua son similares a las especies de ardillas arborcolas con distribuciones ms extendidas, aunque los machos no exhibieron las tpicas fluctuaciones de la masa corporal. Las fluctuaciones espaciales y temporales extremas del alimento experimentadas por las ardillas zorro de Chiricahua pueden dar lugar a patrones anuales en uso del espacio y en la masa corporal que se diferencian de las ardillas arborcolas que viven en bosques con una mayor abundancia de alimento.
20424764|Velvet ants (Hymenoptera: Mutillidae) of the Bitter Lake National Wildlife Refuge were collected and studied over a 4-year period (1996 to 1999). The study resulted in the collection of at least 52 species in 6 genera. It also resulted in the discovery and description of the previously unknown male of Dasymutilla calorata Mickel, plus the discovery and description of 2 new species. /// Las hormigas de terciopelo (Himenptero: Mutillidae) del Bitter Lake National Wildlife Refuge fueron colectadas y estudiadas durante periodo de 4 aos (1996 a 1999). El estudio result en la coleccin de por lo menos 52 especies en 6 gneros. Tambin result en el descubrimiento y en la descripcin del macho previamente desconocido del Dasymutilla calorata Mickel, ms el descubrimiento y la descripcin de 2 nuevas especies.
20424765|Honeybees (Apis mellifera) in the Americas are an introduced species that has been established throughout most of the hemisphere for decades or centuries. An exception is the uninhabited Midriff islands in the Gulf of California. Except for the near-shore Isla Tiburn, historical evidence indicates that feral honeybees did not successfully colonize the Midriff islands until about the early 1990s. Today, colonies are well established on the major islands of Tiburn, San Esteban, San Lorenzo, and ngel de la Guarda, and honeybees forage on 2 smaller islands: Las Animas (San Lorenzo Norte) and Meja. There is no evidence of colonization or foraging on the small and floristically impoverished islands of Salsipuedes, Rasa, Partida Norte, and San Pedro Mrtir. Whether the honeybees are Africanized remains undetermined, but is likely in view of the overwater distances to the islands and time of their arrival. Whether Africanized or not, honeybees are an invasive exotic species that could significantly disrupt the largely natural Midriff island ecosystems. /// La abeja de miel (Apis mellifera) en Amrica es una especie introducida que fue establecida en la mayor parte del hemisferio hace dcadas o siglos. Hay una excepcin, las islas deshabitadas Midriff, en el Golfo de California. Excluyendo a la Isla Tiburn, que est cerca de la costa, la evidencia histrica indica que las abejas de miel silvestres no colonizaron las islas Midriff hasta los primeros aos de la dcada de 1990. Hoy en da las colonias de abejas de miel estn bien establecidas en las islas mayores de Tiburn, San Esteban, San Lorenzo y ngel de la Guarda, y las abejas de miel tambin se alimentan en dos islas ms pequeas, Las Animas (San Lorenzo Norte) y Meja. No existe ninguna evidencia de colonizacin o de bsqueda de alimento en las islas pequeas y de flora empobrecida de Salsipuedes, Rasa, Partida Norte y San Pedro Mrtir. Todava no se sabe si las abejas de miel son africanizadas, pero es posible considerando las distancias sobre el agua entre las islas y el momento de su llegada. Independientemente de si son africanizadas o no, la abeja de miel es una especie extica e invasora que pudiera perturbar significativamente los ecosistemas ampliamente naturales de las islas Midriff.
20424766|Cercyonis pegala, a butterfly whose geographic and temporal distribution in Mexico is poorly known, is reported from Coahuila State for the first time, from the Valle de Cuatro Cienegas. This area is composed of a unique vegetational community in which C. pegala was not formerly known to occur. /// Se registra por primera vez para del estado de Coahuila, del Valle de Cuatro Cienegas, a Cercyonis pegala, un lepidptero que en Mxico es poco conocida su distribucin geogrfica y temporal. Adems, en el NE de Mxico, se reporta tambin en una comunidad vegetal diferente a la conocida en esta regin.
20424767|We report an apparently successful effort to restore native fishes to a pool in the Cuatro Cinegas Bolsn, Coahuila, Mexico. The results demonstrate the feasibility, in small, confined systems, of eliminating a recently introduced nonnative fish, the spotted jewelfish (Hemichromis guttatus), and transplanting a native fish assemblage from nearby areas. We recommend that similar removal and restoration activities be conducted to protect the unique, highly endemic Cuatro Cinegas fish fauna. /// Se reporta un esfuerzo aparentemente exitoso por restaurar los peces nativos de una poza en el Bolsn de Cuatro Cinegas, Coahuila, Mxico. El resultado demuestra la factibilidad, en pequeos sistemas confinados, de eliminar la especie recientemente introducida y no nativa del pez joya manchado (Hemichromis guttatus), y trasplantar el grupo de peces originales, transportndolos de reas cercanas. Recomendamos realizar esfuerzos similares en otras reas, que conduzcan a la proteccin de esta nica fauna de peces altamente endmicos de Cuatro Cinegas.
20424768|The diploid checkered whiptail lizard, Aspidoscelis tesselata, is a parthenogenetic species that occupies semiarid habitats in the southwestern USA. It comprises several morphologically distinct pattern classes that occasionally coexist within the same geographical area. Two pattern classes, C and E, coexist on both sides of Sumner Lake and the Pecos River in Sumner Lake State Park, De Baca County, New Mexico. Individuals of pattern class C are larger than individuals of pattern class E (they also produce larger clutches and take longer to reach reproductive maturity). Herein we present analyses of the stomach contents of specimens collected at Sumner Lake to determine if these 2 pattern classes show differences in their diets. Termites made up over 70% of the prey items found in the stomachs of both pattern classes, but when analyzed by volume, the most important prey were cicadas, planthoppers, and short-horned grasshoppers for pattern class C, and short-horned grasshoppers, cicadas, long-horned grasshoppers, termites, and scarab beetles for pattern class E. Considering prey other than termites, pattern class C lizards tended to consume larger prey items than did pattern class E lizards. Aside from this size-related difference, the diet of the 2 pattern classes at Sumner Lake was similar. This lends support to the hypothesis that body size and reproductive differences between the 2 pattern classes are genetically based. /// La lagartija diploide Aspidoscelis tesselata es una especie partenogentica que ocupa hbitats semiridos en el suroeste de Estados Unidos. sta est constituida de varias clases de patrones morfolgicamente distintos que ocasionalmente coexisten en la misma rea geogrfica. Dos clases de patrones, C y E, coexisten en ambos lados de Sumner Lake y el ro Pecos en el Sumner Lake State Park, condado De Baca, Nuevo Mxico. Individuos de la clase de patrn C son ms grandes que los de la clase de patrn E (tambin tienen puestas ms grandes y alcanzan la madurez sexual a una edad ms avanzada). Presentamos anlisis del contenido estomacal de especimenes recolectados en Sumner Lake para determinar si estas dos clases de patrones muestran diferencias en sus dietas. Las termitas representaron el 70% de las presas encontradas en los estmagos de ambas clases de patrn, pero en el anlisis por volumen, las presas ms importantes fueron las cigarras, hempteros del tipo saltadores de hojas, y los chapulines de cuernos cortos para la clase de patrn C, y chapulines de cuernos cortos, cigarras, chapulines de cuernos largos, termitas y escarabajos para la clase de patrn E. Considerando presas diferentes a las termitas, las lagartijas de la clase de patrn C tendieron a consumir presas ms grandes que las lagartijas de la clase de patrn E. A parte de estas diferencias relacionadas con el tamao, la dieta de las dos clases de patrones en Sumner Lake fue similar. Esto apoya la hiptesis de que el tamao corporal y las diferencias reproductivas entre estas dos clases de patrones tienen bases genticas.
20424769|Many interspecific commensal foraging interactions involving birds have been documented. We describe an observation of commensal foraging by a fan-tailed warbler (Euthlypis lachrymosa) with a nine-banded armadillo (Dasypus novemcinctus) in Guerrero, southwestern Mexico. Our observation is similar to those reported from El Salvador by (Komar and Hanks, 2002) and indicates this association between fan-tailed warblers and nine-banded armadillos is more widespread than previously reported. /// Se han documentado varias interacciones comensales nterespecficas del forrajeo que involucran a aves. Se describe una relacin de forrajeo comensal por un chipe roquero (Euthlypis lachrymosa) y un armadillo de nueve bandas (Dasypus novemcinctus) en Guerrero, suroeste de Mxico. Esta observacin es similar a las reportadas en El Salvador por (Komar y Hanks, 2002) e indica que la relacin entre el chipe roquero y el armadillo de nueve anillos es ms amplia que se conoca.
20424770|We present the first documented account of adult greater roadrunner (Geococcyx californianus) feeding on California least tern chicks (Sterna antillarum browni). This predation event occurred at a designated nesting site within Batiquitos Lagoon, San Diego County, California, in 1996. We hypothesize that the concentrated foraging efforts by the roadrunner were an opportunistic response to a localized abundance of favorable prey items, which warrants an increased awareness at other least tern nesting sites situated in close proximity to greater roadrunner habitat. /// Presentamos el primer informe documentado del correcaminos norteo (Geococcyx californianus) alimentndose con pollitos de charrn mnimo (Sterna antillarum browni). Este evento de depredacin ocurri en un sitio designado para la anidacin dentro de Batiquitos Lagoon, condado de San Diego, California, en 1996. Hipotetizamos que los esfuerzos concentrados de bsqueda de comida de parte del correcaminos fueron una respuesta oportunista a una abundancia localizada de presa favorable, lo cual justifica una apreciacin incrementada de otros sitios de anidacin de charrn mnimo situados en cercana al hbitat del correcaminos norteo.
20424771|We report the karyotypes of Reithrodontomys hirsutus and R. mexicanus from Oaxaca and Puebla, Mexico, and R. sumichrasti from Puebla and Veracruz, Mexico; the first is described for the first time and the latter 2 represent karyotypic variants from localities different from those previously reported. Our findings confirm the complex chromosomal evolution that has occurred within the genus Reithrodontomys and support molecular data indicating that an undescribed species inhabits the highlands of the Sierra Madre Oriental in Mexico. We also document chromosomal variation within R. sumichrasti congruent with phylogenetic patterns reported previously. /// Reportamos los cariotipos de Reithrodontomys hirsutus y R. mexicanus de Oaxaca y Puebla, Mxico, y R sumichrasti de Puebla y Veracruz, Mxico; el primero es descrito por primera vez y los ltimos dos representan variaciones cariotpicas provenientes de localidades diferentes a las reportadas previamente. Nuestros resultados confirman la compleja evolucin cromosmica que ha ocurrido dentro del gnero Reithrodontomys y apoyan datos moleculares que indican que una especie an no descrita habita las tierras altas de la Sierra Madre Oriental en Mxico. Tambin documentamos variacin cromosmica dentro de R. sumichrasti congruente con los patrones filogenticos reportados previamente.
20424772|Before 1500, the western Great Plains was occupied by 3 sympatric wild canid species, which is the general rule throughout most of the world. However, during the past 100 years, substantial changes to the canid community have occurred in this region. During research on canids in the panhandle of Texas from 1998 to 2001, we documented 5 canid species within 5 km of each other, although there was apparent habitat segregation among species. This is the highest reported number of canid species at a given location in North America and indicates that recent human activities have increased the biodiversity of canids throughout the western Great Plains. /// Antes de 1500, el oeste de las Grandes Planicies estaba ocupado por tres especies simptricas de cnidos, algo comn en otras partes del mundo. Sin embargo, durante los ltimos 100 aos ha habido cambios sustanciales en la comunidad cnida de esta regin. Durante la investigacin llevada a cabo en el "panhandle" de Texas entre 1998 y 2001, documentamos 5 especies de cnidos a 5 km uno del otro, aunque aparentemente haba segregacin dentro del hbitat entre las especies. Esta es la concentracin ms alta de cnidos documentada en cualquier lugar de Amrica del Norte, e indica que las actividades humanas recientes han aumentado la biodiversidad de los cnidos a travs del oeste de las Grandes Planicies.
20424773|We conducted spotlight counts along a 41-km transect to estimate population density and habitat use of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), an introduced mammalian herbivore on Santa Catalina Island, California. Mean population density, calculated using distance-sampling procedures, was 5.41 deer/km2 (95% CI: 4.40, 6.65) during the 11 months of our study. Deer used island chaparral, human-developed areas, and to a lesser degree, riparian vegetation more than expected, and bare areas, grasslands, and woodlands less than expected, based on the availability of these habitats in our study area. /// Condujimos un estudio basado en conteos a la luz de un reflector a lo largo de un transecto de 41 km para estimar la densidad poblacional y el uso de hbitat del venado bura (Odocoileus hemionus), un mamfero herbvoro introducido en Santa Catalina Island, California, USA. La densidad media de poblacin, basada en recuentos de muestras a distancia, fue de 5.41 venados/km2 (95% CI: 4.40, 6.65), durante los 11 meses de este estudio. Los venados usaron chaparral isleo, reas desarrolladas por humanos, y con menos frecuencia, vegetacin riparia ms de lo que se esperaba, y reas desnudas, pastizales y bosques menos de lo que se esperaba, basados en la disponibilidad de estos hbitas en nuestra rea de estudio.
20424774|Although feral hogs (Sus scrofa) have expanded their range into the Chihuahuan Desert of Texas, little information is available on their ecology. We determined that the summer diet of feral hogs (n = 28) in the Davis Mountains of Texas was dominated by herbaceous material (38.6%) and roots and tubers (34.3%). Further investigation is needed to determine the impact of feral hog foraging behavior on the fragile floral and faunal communities of the Chihuahuan Desert. /// Aun cuando los cerdos salvajes (Sus scrofa) han expandido su distribucin al desierto Chihuahuense de Texas, poca informacin existe sobre la ecologa de esta especie. Se determin que la dieta de los cerdos salvajes (n = 28) en el verano en las Davis Mountains de Texas estuvo compuesta de material herbceo (38.6%) y de races y tubrculos (34.3%). Ms investigacin es necesaria para determinar el impacto del pastoreo de los cerdos salvajes sobre las frgiles comunidades de flora y fauna silvestre del desierto Chihuahuense.
20424775|Mountain lions (Puma concolor), throughout their distribution, eat a variety of prey, but primarily consume large prey (e.g., cervids). While monitoring radio-collared mountain lions, we saw a mountain lion kitten consuming a Texas tortoise (Gopherus berlandieri). Small prey might increase survival of young mountain lions developing predation skills required for solitary survival as adults. /// Los pumas (Puma concolor) a travs de su distribucin se alimentan de una variedad de presas, pero principalmente consumen presas de mayor tamao (por ej. crvidos). Mientras monitorebamos pumas con collares de telemetra, observamos una cra de puma consumiendo una tortuga galpago Tamaulipeco (Gopherus berlandieri). Presas de menor tamao pueden incrementar la supervivencia de pumas jvenes desarrollando las habilidades de depredador necesitadas para la supervivencia como adulto solitario.
20424780|Herbivory by wild ungulates influences the structure and composition of plant communities, but less is known about how such changes affect species richness and abundance of insect herbivores. In Bandelier National Monument, New Mexico, 1999 to 2002, we used ungulate exclosures and reference sites to measure the response of butterflies to herbivory by high numbers of elk (Cervus elaphus) in ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) grassland and aspen-mixed conifer forests. At each site, we measured butterfly abundance, species richness, and selected environmental variables. Butterfly abundance and species richness significantly differed among dates in ponderosa pine-grassland sites and differed significantly for date, treatment, and date*treatment interaction in aspenmixed conifer sites in 2001, the year of greatest butterfly abundance and richness. Environmental variables differed little between treatments in either habitat, with the exception of the distribution of aspen stem densities, which significantly differed among height classes and treatments in 2001 and 2002. Results of nonmetric, multidimensional scaling ordination indicated that butterfly community composition in late summer was best explained by non-woody biomass, blooming forb species richness and abundance, and aspen saplings excluded from elk in the aspen-mixed conifer sites. Although elk were only excluded for 4 y, our results indicated that, at high densities, they browse non-woody vegetation and young aspen, which in turn has a cascading affect on adult butterfly community composition in some habitats during some years. /// La herbivora de los ungulados silvestres influye en la estructura y composicin de las comunidades vegetales, pero se sabe menos sobre cmo esos cambios afectan la abundancia y riqueza de especies de insectos herbvoros. En Bandelier National Monument, Nuevo Mxico, de 1999 a 2002, usamos reas encerradas para ungulados y reas de referencia, para medir la respuesta de mariposas a la herbivora por un nmero elevado de alces (Cervus elaphus) en prados de pinos ponderosa (Pinus ponderosa) y en bosques de lamos y conferas mixtas. En cada sitio medimos la abundancia de mariposas, la riqueza de especies, y variables medioambientales seleccionadas. La abundancia de mariposas y la riqueza de especies variaron significativamente para distintas fechas en reas de prado de pino ponderosa, y difirieron significativamente para fechas, tratamiento, y la interaccin fecha*tratamiento en reas de lamos y conferas mixtas en el 2001, el ao de mayor riqueza y abundancia de mariposas. Las variables medioambientales se diferenciaron poco entre tratamientos en ambos hbitats, con la excepcin de la distribucin de densidades de troncos de lamos, que vari significativamente entre clases de altura y tratamientos en 2001 y 2002. Los resultados de la ordenacin en escala multidimensional no mtrica indicaron que la composicin de las comunidades de mariposas en el verano tardo se explicaba mejor en trminos de biomasa no leosa, riqueza y abundancia de especies de hierbas florecientes, y lamos jvenes excluidos de los alces en reas de conferas mixtas. Aunque los alces fueron excluidos por slo cuatro aos, nuestros resultados indican que en altas densidades ramonean vegetacin no leosa y lamos jvenes, lo que a su vez tiene un efecto cascada sobre la composicin de la comunidad de mariposas adultas, en algunos hbitats, en algunos aos.
20424781|I compared the life histories of the invading Catostomus commersoni and the declining native C. plebeius in the upper Rio Grande of northern New Mexico to illuminate the mechanisms by which C. commersoni attains higher abundance than C. plebeius. In the first year of life, the 2 species did not differ in length, but C. plebeius reached greater individual mass. Catostomus plebeius achieved a higher intrinsic reproductive rate by maturing earlier, but C. commersoni attained approximately twice the net reproductive output by living longer, growing larger, and attaining 15-fold higher fecundity. While other factors undoubtedly facilitate the invasion of C. commersoni, I suggest that the high fecundity achieved by large C. commersoni contributes to its dominance in the upper Rio Grande system. /// Compar la historia de vida de la especie invasiva del pez Catostomus commersoni y la especie nativa en declinacin Catostomus plebeius en la parte superior del Ro Bravo en el norte de Nuevo Mxico, EEUU, para elucidar los mecanismos por los cuales C. commersoni alcanza mayor abundancia que C. plebeius. En el primer ao de vida, las dos especies no difirieron en longitud, pero C. plebeius alcanz una masa individual ms grande. Catostomus plebeius alcanz una tasa reproductiva intrnseca ms grande por madurar ms temprano, pero C. commersoni logr aproximadamente la doble produccin reproductiva neta, creciendo ms y alcanzando una fecundidad 15 veces ms alta. Aunque otros factores sin duda facilitaron la invasin de C. commersoni, sugiero que la alta fecundidad lograda por las grandes de C. commersoni contribuye a su dominacin en la parte superior del sistema del Ro Bravo.
20424782|Fire regimes in North America, including the American Southwest, have undergone relatively dramatic shifts in the last century, resulting in novel stand-replacing fires, which are changing landscapes in unprecedented ways. We investigated some possible effects of these landscape changes on a terrestrial plethodontid salamander (Plethodon neomexicanus). We investigated microhabitat temperatures in 4 burn-severity types following recent fires. Temperatures were significantly greater in high-severity and moderate-severity burn areas than in low-severity and unburned areas. We present presence-absence data from 4 burn-severity types that were previously documented as having salamanders present. The proportions of presence and absence were similar for all severity types. Finally, we used data from a 9-year demographic study of P. neomexicanus from 2 locations, where one location was burned in a wildfire halfway through the study, to measure possible effects of fire. We compared salamander size distributions and body condition pre-fire and post-fire within the burned site, and the unburned site was used as a reference location. Salamanders at the burned site had a shift in size distribution, with an increase in observed juveniles and a decrease in observed adults 2 y post-fire relative to itself. No significant changes were measured at the unburned site. We did not observe a significant effect in salamander body condition. Overall, we conclude that salamander surveys are valuable for determining presence-absence, but alone are ineffective and not appropriate for monitoring or measuring populations after a disturbance. We suggest that future studies investigating the effects of disturbance on terrestrial plethodontid salamanders use size distribution and potentially body condition data to monitor for effects within populations, in conjunction with measuring environmental parameters for understanding causal agents. /// El patrn de incendios en Amrica del Norte, incluyendo el suroeste de los Estados Unidos, ha cambiado dramticamente durante el ltimo siglo, resultando en fuegos inslitos que reemplazan bosques enteros y que cambian el paisaje en maneras jams vistas. Investigamos algunos de los posibles efectos de estos cambios del paisaje en una salamandra terrestre (Plethodontidae: Plethodon neomexicanus). Investigamos temperaturas de microhbitat en 4 tipos de severidad de quema despus de incendios recientes. Las temperaturas fueron significativamente ms altas en reas de quema de alta y de mediana severidad que en reas de baja severidad de fuego o no incendiadas. Presentamos datos de presencia y ausencia en reas de los 4 tipos de severidad de fuego donde previamente se document la presencia de salamandras. Las proporciones de presencia y ausencia fueron similares en todos los niveles de severidad. Finalmente, usamos datos de un estudio demogrfico de 9 aos de P. neomexicanus de 2 localidades, donde una de ellas fue quemada por un fuego natural a mitad del estudio, para medir los posibles efectos del fuego. Comparamos las distribuciones de los tamaos corporales de las salamandras y su condicin corporal tanto antes como despus del fuego dentro del rea quemada, y el rea no quemada fue usada como localidad de referencia. Las salamandras del sitio quemado cambiaron su distribucin de tamaos corporales, con un aumento en juveniles observados y un decremento en adultos observados 2 aos despus del fuego en contraste consigo mismo. No se midieron cambios significativos en el sitio no quemado. No observamos un efecto significativo en la condicin corporal de las salamandras. En conclusin, los muestreos de salamandras son herramientas de valor para determinar su presencia o ausencia, pero solos no son efectivos ni apropiados para monitorear o medir poblaciones despus de una perturbacin. Sugerimos que investigaciones futuras de efectos de perturbacin en salamandras terrestres (Plethodontidae) usen tanto la distribucin de tamaos corporales, y potencialmente la condicin corporal, para monitorear efectos dentro de poblaciones, como parmetros ambientales para comprender agentes causales.
20424783|Cayo Cochino Pequeo is a 0.64-km Caribbean island in the Cayos Cochinos archipelago, Department of Islas de la Baha, Honduras. One published report noted the presence of the rainbow whiptail (Cnemidophorus lemniscatus) on Cayo Cochino Pequeo, but nothing is known about the biology of this insular population. During a part of the dry season in July and August 2004, we used drift fences, pitfall traps, and separate observational transects to elucidate the distribution and habitat use of C. lemniscatus on the island. The only population of this species was located in a narrow coastal zone (width to 60 m and length to 450 m) on the southern half of the eastern windward side of the island. We analyzed the percentage of the canopy cover and the percentage of 4 ground coverage types along 2 transects 200 m long in this area to understand the basis of the suitability of the habitat for C. lemniscatus. Descriptively, the area harboring this species on Cayo Cochino Pequeo consisted of the remnants of a coconut palm grove with low-lying herbaceous vegetation and grasses, in which a mosaic of small, open areas of sandy soil and coral fragments, with or without accumulations of debris, were the foci of lizard activities. Also observed in this habitat were 2 individuals of the brown racer (Dryadophis melanolomus), an actively foraging snake and likely predator on C. lemniscatus. Data obtained on rainbow whiptails captured in pitfall traps and subsequently released were used to determine the size and color patterns of hatchlings and adult males and females. /// Cayo Cochino Pequeo es una isla caribea de 0.64 km localizada en el archipilago de Cayos Cochinos, Departamento de Islas de la Baha, Honduras. Una publicacin seal la presencia de la lagartija (Cnemidophorus lemniscatus) en Cayo Cochino Pequeo, pero no se sabe nada sobre la biologa de esta poblacin islea. Durante parte de la estacin seca en julio y en agosto del 2004, utilizamos cercas de zanja y trampas de hoyo y transectos de observacin para explicar la distribucin y utilizacin del hbitat de C. lemniscatus en la isla. La nica poblacin de esta especie fue localizada en una zona costera angosta (ancho 60 m y largo 450 m) en la mitad sur del lado este de la isla expuesta al viento. Analizamos el porcentaje de cubierta del dosel y el porcentaje de cuatro tipos de suelos a lo largo de dos transectos de 200 m de largo en esta rea para entender las bases de condiciones adecuadas del hbitat para C. lemniscatus. Descriptivamente, el rea que alberga a esta especie en Cayo Cochino Pequeo consisti de los remanentes de una plantacin de palmas de coco con vegetacin herbcea baja y pastos, en la cual un mosaico de reas pequeas, abiertas de suelo arenoso y fragmentos de coral, con o sin acumulaciones de materia orgnica, fueron el foco de la actividad de las lagartijas. En este hbitat tambin observamos dos individuos de la culebra (Dryadophis melanolomus), una serpiente que forrajea activamente y que probablemente es un depredador de C. lemniscatus. Datos obtenidos de lagartijas capturadas en las trampas de hoyo y liberadas posteriormente fueron utilizados para determinar el tamao y patrn de coloracin de cras y de adultos de machos y de hembras.
20424784|Among crotaphytids, the blunt-nosed leopard lizard (Gambelia sila) is one of only 2 species known in which adults do not have permanent dichromatic patterns, but both males and females display bright breeding colors. Males in most populations develop a salmon color over most of their head and body, whereas females develop rusty red blotches laterally along the head and trunk. Also unusual is the yellow color exhibited by juveniles. Between 1992 and 1994, we captured adult and juvenile G. sila on the Elkhorn Plain, San Luis Obispo County, California, and scored individuals for their coloration. Juvenile G. sila developed a yellow color on the undersides of their hind limbs and tail that was apparent when they were about 55 mm snout-vent length (SVL) and was prominent until about 85 to 90 mm SVL. Both males and females developed breeding colors between 85 and 95 mm SVL. Breeding colors of adults developed soon after they emerged each year in April or early May, and most adults retained breeding colors until they ended activity in July or August, although coloration fluctuated within a season for some individuals. Individual differences in the amount of coloration occurred with some large adults never developing fully bright breeding colors. Females produced multiple clutches in each year, and their breeding colors were not immediately apparent with their first clutch and sometimes faded, but did not disappear, between clutches. /// Dentro de Crotaphytidae, la lagartija Gambelia sila es una de las nicas dos especies conocidas en la que los adultos no tienen diseos dicromticos permanentes, pero tanto los machos como las hembras muestran colores de apareamiento brillantes. Los machos en la mayora de las poblaciones desarrollan un color salmn sobre la mayor parte de la cabeza y el cuerpo, mientras que las hembras desarrollan manchas rojizas lateralmente por la cabeza y tronco. Tambin inusual es la coloracin amarilla exhibida por los juveniles. Entre 1992 y 1994, capturamos adultos y juveniles de G. sila en Elkhorn Plain, condado de San Luis Obispo, California, y clasificamos individuos por su coloracin. Los juveniles de G. sila desarrollan una coloracin amarilla abajo de las extremidades posteriores y la cola que fue aparente cuando estaban acerca de 55 mm longitud hocico-cloaca (SVL) y fue prominente hasta acerca de 85-90 mm SVL. Tanto machos como hembras desarrollaron la coloracin de apareamiento entre 85-95 mm SVL. La coloracin de apareamiento de los adultos se desarroll poco despus de que emergieron cada ao en abril o principios de mayo y en la mayora de los adultos mantuvieron los colores de apareamiento hasta que terminaran la actividad en julio o en agosto, aunque la coloracin fluctu en una temporada para algunos individuos. Las diferencias individuales en la cantidad de la coloracin ocurrieron con algunos adultos grandes que nunca desarrollaron completamente colores de apareamiento brillantes. Las hembras produjeron mltiples puestas cada ao y sus colores de apareamiento no fueron inmediatamente aparentes con su primera puesta, y algunas veces se destieron, pero no desaparecieron, entre puestas.
20424785|A small resident population of peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus anatum) in the Big Bend region of Texas has suffered reproductive failures since 1990. To continue our assessment of the effects of environmental contaminants on the peregrine falcon, we collected representative avian prey species during 2001 at Mariscal Canyon, Big Bend National Park. The avian carcasses were analyzed for inorganic and organochlorine contaminants. Concentrations of Se and Hg were present at high levels (up to 11 and 2.2 g/g dry weight, respectively) in some avian prey and could be implicated in reproductive failures of the peregrine falcon in Big Bend National Park. All other inorganic elements were below concentrations known to affect reproduction or to be associated with other deleterious effects in birds. Of all the organochlorines analyzed, only DDE and total PCBs were present above detection limits in all species, although at low concentrations. Our study provides further support to the hypothesis that contaminants in potential avian prey of the peregrine falcon in the Big Bend region are implicated in the productivity failures observed in this species since 1990. /// Una poblacin pequea del halcn peregrino (Falco peregrinus anatum) residente en la regin de Big Bend ha tenido fracasos reproductivos desde 1990. Para continuar nuestra evaluacin de los efectos de los contaminantes ambientales en el halcn peregrino colectamos especies de aves representativas como presa durante el ao 2001 en el can de Mariscal, en el Parque Nacional de Big Bend, Los cadveres de aves se analizaron por contaminantes inorgnicos y organoclorados. Observamos concentraciones de Se y Hg a niveles elevados (hasta 11 y 2.2 g/g peso seco, respectivamente) en algunas especies presa y podran estar implicados en los fracasos reproductivos del halcn peregrino en el Parque Nacional de Big Bend. Todos los dems elementos inorgnicos se observaron a concentraciones debajo de las que se sabe que afectan la reproduccin o que han sido asociadas con otros efectos dainos en aves. De todos los compuestos organoclorados analizados, solamente DDE y PCBs totales se encontraron por arriba de los lmites de deteccin en todas las especies, pero a bajas concentraciones. Nuestro estudio proporciona apoyo adicional a la hiptesis de que los contaminantes en aves que son presa potencial del halcn peregrino en la regin de Big Bend estn posiblemente implicados en los fracasos reproductivos observados en la especie desde 1990.
20424786|The western burrowing owl (Athene cunicularia hypugaea) is threatened in Mexico, endangered in Canada, and declining in most of the western United States. Most previous research has focused on burrowing owl breeding biology, and little is known about its winter ecology. We determined characteristics of roost sites used by western burrowing owls in southern Texas during winter. Data on 46 winter roost sites were collected from 15 November 2001 to 15 February 2002. Of these roost sites, 87% were located on agricultural land, 80% were along roads, and 74% were concrete, steel, or cast-iron culverts. Mean diameter (SE) of roost site openings was 22  1.5 cm. Most roost sites (70%) were located on inaccessible private lands. Bare ground comprised 61% of ground cover within a 10-m radius of roost sites. We recommend that landowners and public-land managers should be encouraged to use smaller-diameter culverts when building roads or replacing old or damaged culverts and to graze livestock or mow around these culverts during winter. /// El tecolote llanero (Athene cunicularia hypugaea) est en peligro de extincin en Canad, amenazado en Mxico, y en decline en la mayor parte occidental de los Estados Unidos. La mayora de las investigaciones previas se han enfocado en la biologa reproductiva en los tecolotes llanero, y poco se sabe de su ecologa invernal. Determinamos las caractersticas de las perchas usadas por los tecolotes llanero en el sur de Texas en el invierno. Colectamos datos de 46 perchas invernales del 15 de noviembre 2001 hasta el 15 de febrero 2002. De estas perchas, 87% estaban localizadas en tierras agrcolas, 80% a lo largo de caminos y 74% de las alcantarillas eran de concreto, acero o hierro fundido. Las perchas tienen un promedio dimetro de 22  1.5 cm (EE). La mayora de las perchas (70%) estaban localizadas en terrenos privados inaccesibles. El 61% de los suelos estuvieron sin vegetacin dentro un radio de 10-m de las perchas. Recomendamos que terratenientes y gerentes de terrenos pblicos se animen a usar alcantarillas con dimetros ms pequeos cuando construyan caminos o reemplacen alcantarillas viejas o daadas, y pastorear el ganado o cortar el pasto alrededor de las alcantarillas durante el invierno.
20424787|Sex ratios of Myotis velifer populations were studied during 2 hibernating seasons within and among 42 caves across a portion of its geographic range in Oklahoma and Kansas. The number of females to males was significantly different than the expected 1:1 sex ratio in 25 of 44 visits to hibernacula. The percentage of females at the Selman Cave System, one of the largest hibernacula in Oklahoma, was always greater than the percentage of males throughout the season and in clusters of different sizes. Neither females nor males were any more likely to be found at the center than on the periphery of large clusters. The sex ratio of volant young at a maternity roost did not differ significantly from the expected 1:1 sex ratio. /// Se estudi el cociente de sexo de poblaciones Myotis velifer durante dos distintas temporadas de hibernacin en 42 cavernas a travs de una porcin de su distribucin geogrfica en Oklahoma y Kansas. El nmero de hembras comparado al de machos fue significativamente diferente a la tasa sexual esperada de 1:1 en 25 de las 44 visitas a cuevas de hibernacin. El porcentaje de hembras en el Selman Cave System, uno de los ms grandes de hibernacin en Oklahoma, fue siempre mayor al porcentaje de machos a travs de la temporada y en agrupaciones de distintos tamaos. Ni hembras ni machos fueron encontrados con mayor frecuencia en el centro o en la periferia de las agrupaciones. El cociente sexual entre juveniles voladores en nidos de maternidad no fue significativamente diferente al esperado cociente sexual de 1:1.
20424788|Although the swimming behavior of Oryzomys palustris has been described, little is known about how long this species will remain in an area that is inundated by several centimeters of water. This study documents the response of an O. palustris population to habitat inundation in a coastal prairie locality of southeastern Texas. During a mark-recapture study conducted during 2002 and 2003, we livetrapped O. palustris on a grid in an area that experienced prolonged (5 mo) inundation during 2 of our 6 quarterly trapping periods. We describe a trapping technique, using foam rafts to support rodent live-traps, that is suitable for use in inundated areas. Despite long-term inundation, little available refuge, and an apparent complete turnover of the population, we estimated population densities of ca. 29 individuals per hectare during inundation, only a moderate decrease from the higher levels encountered before and after inundation. /// A pesar de que se ha descrito el comportamiento natatorio de Oryzomys palustris, se sabe poco sobre cuanto tiempo permanece esta especie en un rea inundada por varios centmetros de agua. Esta investigacin documenta la respuesta de una poblacin de O. palustris a la inundacin de hbitat en un llano costero del sureste de Texas. Durante un estudio de marca-recaptura realizado durante el 2002 y el 2003, capturamos vivos los O. palustris, en una parcela de un rea que sufri inundacin prolongada (5 meses), durante 2 de nuestras 6 sesiones trimestrales de trampeo. Describimos una tcnica de trampeo usando balsas de unicel para sostener trampas para roedores, que son tiles para usar en reas inundadas. A pesar de la prolongada inundacin, la falta de refugio disponible y un aparente cambio completo de la poblacin, estimamos una densidad poblacional de aproximadamente 29 individuos por hectrea durante la inundacin, slo una moderada disminucin del nivel ms alto encontrado antes y despus de la inundacin.
20424789|Based on 13 y of trapping data, captures of the western harvest mouse (Reithrodontomys megalotis) in northeastern Kansas decreased significantly in summer. Reduced rates of capture could have arisen from reduced numbers or behavioral changes. We found a slight decrease in persistence rates in summer, so in June and July 2002, we placed traps on elevated platforms to test whether R. megalotis might be scansorial in summer. Elevated traps were significantly more successful than surface traps. We concluded that apparent disappearance of R. megalotis in summer was attributable to changes in behavior rather than emigration or death. /// Basados en datos de trampeo en el noreste de Kansas a lo largo de 13 aos, las capturas del ratn cosechero comn (Reithrodontomys megalotis) decrecieron significativamente durante los veranos. Menores tasas de captura podran derivarse de menores nmeros o de cambios en comportamiento. Encontramos una pequea disminucin en la persistencia de individuos de esta especie en trampeo durante el verano. Por lo tanto, durante junio y julio del 2002, colocamos trampas en plataformas elevados para comprobar si R. megalotis son trepadores durante el verano. Las trampas en plataforma fueron significativamente ms exitosas que las colocadas en la superficie del suelo. Concluimos que la aparente desaparicin de R. megalotis durante el verano se atribuye a cambios de comportamiento ms que a emigracin o mortandad.
20424790|Burrow systems of 43 individuals representing 7 species of pocket gophers (Geomyidae) in Texas (Geomys breviceps, G. bursarius, G. personatus, G. texensis, Thomomys bottae) and Jalisco, Mexico (Cratogeomys fumosus, Pappogeomys bulleri) were excavated, measured, described, and compared. All burrow systems consisted of a main tunnel with several to many side branches. Burrow systems of most species included chambers serving as nest sites, food caches, and latrines. Vertically oriented spiral tunnels are reported for the first time for G. breviceps, G. texensis, and C. fumosus. Regression analyses revealed that mean tunnel depths and diameters varied significantly by species in direct relation to body size. Mean length of tunnel systems varied significantly by species (longest in G. breviceps and shortest in T. bottae), but variation was not correlated with body size. /// Sistemas de madrigueras de 43 individuos, que representan 7 especies de tuzas (Geomyidae) en Texas, USA (Geomys breviceps, G. bursarius, G. personatus, G. texensis, Thomomys bottae) y en Jalisco, Mxico (Cratogeomys fumosus, Pappogeomys bulleri), fueron excavadas, medidas, descritas, y comparadas. Todos los sistemas de madrigueras consistieron en un tnel principal con varias ramificaciones laterales. Los sistemas de la mayora de las especies incluyeron cmaras que servan como sitios de crianza, de almacenamiento del alimento y letrinas. Por primera vez se reportan tneles en espiral orientados verticalmente para G. breviceps, G. texensis y C. fumosus. Los anlisis de regresin revelaron que las profundidades y los dimetros promedio del tnel variaron significativamente por especie con relacin directa al tamao del cuerpo. La longitud promedio de los sistemas de tneles vari significativamente por especie (la ms larga en G. breviceps y la ms corta en T. bottae), sin embargo, la variacin no se correlacion con el tamao del cuerpo.
20424791|The remaining populations of ocelot (Leopardus pardalis albescens) in the United States are reduced to 2 isolated populations in southern Texas, with the next closest populations occurring in central Tamaulipas, Mexico. The species is listed as endangered, and recovery of populations in Texas eventually might require translocations from larger source populations. We sequenced the mitochondrial DNA control region from individuals from Texas and northern Mexico and compared these data to existing sequences derived from ocelots in other parts of its range in southern Mexico, Central America, and South America. Nucleotide diversity was lower in Texas than in Mexico, suggesting a loss of genetic variation as a consequence of fragmentation and increased genetic drift. Phylogenetic analyses showed a close relationship between populations in Texas and northern Mexico that encompass the range of the subspecies L. pardalis albescens. Based on these data, the best source population for a recovery plan involving ocelot translocations would be northern Mexico, because this region seems to form a discrete management unit (both ecologically and phylogenetically) that includes Texas. /// Las poblaciones remanentes de ocelotes (Leopardus pardalis albescens) en los Estados Unidos se encuentran reducidas a dos poblaciones aisladas en el sur de Texas, con la poblacin ms cercana a estas en Tamaulipas central, Mxico. La especie se considera amenazada y la recuperacin de las poblaciones de Texas podra, eventualmente, requerir la traslocacin de individuos desde poblaciones ms grandes. Secuenciamos la regin de control del ADN mitocondrial de individuos de Texas y el norte de Mxico y comparamos estos datos con secuencias existentes de otras reas de distribucin del ocelote en Mxico, Amrica Central y Amrica del Sur. La diversidad nucletida fue ms baja en Texas que en Mxico, lo que sugiere prdida de variabilidad gentica como consecuencia de fragmentacin y elevada deriva gentica. Anlisis filogenticos mostraron una relacin estrecha entre poblaciones en Texas y el norte de Mxico que incluyen el rea de distribucin de la subespecie L. pardalis albescens. En base a estos datos, la mejor poblacin fuente para un plan de recuperacin que involucre traslocacin de ocelotes sera la del norte de Mxico porque esta regin parece formar una unidad de manejo distinta (tanto ecolgica como filogenticamente) que incluye a Texas.
20424792|Desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) have been extirpated from much of their historical range in the Chihuahuan Desert. Understanding their dietary preferences in the Chihuahuan Desert is integral to their successful restoration. We evaluated differences (sexual, temporal, and spatial) in the diets of desert bighorn sheep from Elephant Mountain Wildlife Management Area in the Chihuahuan Desert of western Texas by using microhistological analysis of 432 fecal pellet groups (209 rams, 209 ewes, 14 lambs) collected every 2 weeks between September 1998 and August 2000. Ninety-four plant species were identified; bighorn sheep diets consisted of 50% browse, 35% forbs, 11% grasses, and 4% succulents. Diets of rams and ewes did not differ annually. Diets differed seasonally (P &lt; 0.05); forbs prevailed in diets of rams during winter. Diets of bighorn sheep from Elephant Mountain were compared to previously determined diets from the Beach, Baylor, and Sierra Diablo mountains. There were significant differences among female diets between Elephant Mountain and Beach Mountain during winter and the Sierra Diablo Mountains in fall, winter, and summer. Dietary overlap was greatest among desert bighorn sheep at Elephant Mountain and the Sierra Diablo Mountain populations (57.6%), followed by Baylor Mountain (55.7%) and Beach Mountain (52.0%). Dietary overlap among all ranges was highest in the browse component (53%), followed by forbs (23%), grasses (16%), and succulents (8%). /// El borrego cimarrn del desierto (Ovis canadensis) ha sido extirpado de gran parte de su distribucin histrica en el desierto Chihuahuense. El conocimiento de sus preferencias alimenticias en el desierto Chihuahuense es integral para la restauracin exitosa de esta especie. Hemos evaluado diferencias (sexuales, temporales y espaciales) en las dietas del borrego cimarrn del desierto en Elephant Mountain Wildlife Management Area en el desierto Chihuahuense del oeste de Texas utilizando el anlisis microhistolgico de 432 grupos de heces fecales (209 machos, 209 hembras, 14 cras), colectadas cada 2 semanas entre septiembre 1998 y agosto 2000. Noventa y cuatro especies de plantas fueron identificadas; las dietas de borrego cimarrn consistieron de 50% de arbustivas, 35% de herbceas, 11% de gramneas y 4% de suculentas. Las dietas de machos y hembras no se diferenciaron anualmente. Las dietas difirieron por temporada (P &lt; 0.05); las hierbas prevalecieron en las dietas de machos durante el invierno. Las dietas del borrego cimarrn en Elephant Mountain fueron comparadas con las dietas que haban sido determinadas anteriormente en las sierras Beach, Baylor, y Sierra Diablo. Hubo diferencias significativas entre las dietas de las hembras de Elephant Mountain y Beach Mountain durante el invierno y el verano. La similitud de dietas fue mayor entre las poblaciones de borregos de Elephant Mountain y Sierra Diablo Mountain (57.6%) seguida por Baylor Mountain (55.7%) y Beach Mountain (52.0%). La similitud de las dietas entre todas las sierras fue ms alta en los componentes arbustivos (53%), seguido por herbceas (23%), gramneas (16%) y suculentas (8%).
20424793|We examined use of vegetation associations by female desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) and proximity to human developments to determine whether human activity and developments influenced habitat use. We hypothesized that use of habitats in disturbed areas would be reduced with increasing human activity. We radiocollared 14 deer and monitored their distribution from March 1996 to March 1997. Female desert mule deer generally used the mesquite-burroweed (Prosopis velutina-Isocoma tenuisecta) vegetation association more than it was available and the palo verde (Cercidium)-mixed cacti association less than it was available. Female deer were generally closer to housing, roads, permanent water, and the Central Arizona Project than random points. Our prediction that desert mule deer would avoid human activity was not supported. /// Examinamos el uso de las asociaciones de vegetacin y la proximidad a desarrollos humanos de los venados buros (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) hembras para determinar si la actividad humana y el desarrollo influyen en el uso del hbitat. Hipotetizamos que el uso de hbitats en reas pertubadas sera reducido con el incremento en la actividad humana. Colocamos radio-collares en 14 venados y realizamos un monitoreo de su distribucin desde marzo de 1996 hasta marzo de 1997. Los venados buros del desierto hembra generalmente utilizaron asociaciones de vegetacin de mesquitepasto (Prosopis velutina-Isocoma tenuisecta) ms de lo que estaba disponible y asociacin de palo verde (Cercidium)-cactus mixto en menor cantidad de lo que estaba disponible. Los venados hembras estuvieron generalmente ms cerca a viviendas, carreteras, aguas permanentes, y el Central Arizona Project que lo esperado al azar. Nuestra prediccin de que el venado buro del desierto evitara la actividad humana no fue apoyada.
20424794|Faunal remains of 40 vertebrate taxa were recovered from 15, 10-cm levels of Holocene deposits in Big Manhole Cave, New Mexico. Radiocarbon dates were determined for the 8 uppermost levels and ranged from 550 to 4,170 radiocarbon years before the present. Rapid deposition was indicated for levels 6, 7, and 8. Most identified taxa occurred in the immediate area at the time of our study, but the yellow-nosed cotton rat (Sigmodon ochrognathus), eastern cottontail (Sylvilagus cf., S. floridanus), and Mexican packrat (Neotoma mexicana) currently occur only at higher elevations in the region. The Mexican packrat was present in only the upper 4 levels, consistent with indications from other sites that it arrived east of the Rio Grande relatively recently. The extralimital taxa suggest greater effective precipitation, but the suggestion is confounded by our ignorance of pre-European ecological conditions in the area. /// Restos faunsticos de 40 diferentes taxa vertebrados fueron recobrados de 15 niveles de 10 cm en depsitos Holocenos en la Caverna Big Manhole, Nuevo Mxico. Se determinaron fechas radiocarbnicas para los 8 niveles ms altos y variaron entre 550 a 4170 aos radiocarbono antes del presente. Deposito rpido se indicaba en los niveles 6, 7, y 8. La mayora de los taxa identificados ocurrieron en el rea inmediata al momento de nuestro estudio, pero la rata de nariz amarilla (Sigmodon ochrognathus), el conejo de monte (Sylvilagus cf., S. floridanus), y la rata montera (Neotoma mexicana), ahora ocurren solamente en elevaciones ms altas de la regin. Esta ltima especie aparece solamente en los 4 niveles ms altos, consistente con indicios de otros sitios de que lleg al este del Ro Bravo relativamente reciente. Los taxa localizados fuera del lmite sugieren una precipitacin ms efectiva, pero la sugerencia se confunde por nuestra ignorancia de las condiciones ecolgicas pre-europeas de la regin.
20424795|I describe the vertical distribution of root biomass and root productivity in a xeric shrubland of central Mexico. The effect of the soil nitrogen on root production was evaluated with a fertilization experiment. The highest percentage of roots was found at a depth of 40 to 60 cm. Monthly variation in root biomass for diameter class was significant. Fine and very fine roots were the most important fraction in terms of biomass and production. The highest production of fine root occurred in native soil versus the other treatments. /// Se describe la distribucin vertical de la biomasa de races y la productividad de races en un matorral semirido del centro de Mxico. Con un experimento de fertilizacin se evalu el efecto del nitrgeno del suelo sobre la produccin de races. El mayor porcentaje de las races se encontr entre 40 y 60 cm de profundidad. La variacin mensual en la biomasa de races por clases de dimetros fue significativa. Las races finas y muy finas fueron la fraccin ms importante en trminos de biomasa y produccin. La produccin de races finas ms alta ocurri en el suelo nativo en contraste con los otros tratamientos.
20424796|Plants growing on rock outcrops are subject to environmental and edaphic extremes compared to nearby forested communities growing in deeper soil. Endemic and other characteristic outcrop species have adapted well to the shallow soil habitat of outcrops, but still might be absent from outcrops physically similar to those on which they occur. Presence can be influenced by the ability of species to tolerate various bedrock chemistries and to compete with other characteristic outcrop plants. To examine the role of soil type tolerance in determining the potential distribution of certain plants, we grew individuals of several species (Sedum nuttallianum, Hypericum gentianoides, and Oenothera linifolia) on a limestone substrate that they do not inhabit naturally, even when limestone outcrops are in close proximity to the variety of other rock outcrops where they do occur. Both H. gentianoides and O. linifolia were strongly intolerant of the limestone soil, indicating that edaphic factors are the dominant force limiting distribution. Growth also was reduced for S. nuttallianum, although the same physiological intolerance symptoms were not present as in the other species. Potentially, competitive interactions with Sedum pulchellum, a similar but larger stonecrop, are more important in limiting S. nuttallianum presence on limestone outcrops than is physiological intolerance to the calcareous substrate. /// Las plantas que crecen en afloramientos de rocas estn sujetas a extremos factores ambientales y edficos si se comparan con comunidades forestales vecinas que crecen en suelos ms profundos. Especies endmicas y otras especies de suelos de afloramiento estn bien adaptadas a la poca profundidad de los suelos de estos nichos, pero tambin pueden estar ausentes en afloramientos fsicamente similares a aquellos en los cuales ocurren. La presencia puede ser influenciada por la habilidad de las especies de tolerar la qumica de algunos afloramientos y a competir con otras plantas tpicas de afloramientos. Para examinar el papel que juega la tolerancia a diferentes tipos de suelo en la probable distribucin de ciertas plantas, cultivamos individuos de diferentes especies (Sedum nuttallianum, Hypericum gentianoides, y Oenothera linifolia) en sustratos a base de piedra caliza que no es donde normalmente habitan, aun cuando afloramientos de piedra caliza estn en la proximidad con variedades de otros afloramientos rocosos en donde ellas ocurren. Las especies H. gentianoides y O. linifolia mostraron una fuerte intolerancia a suelos calizos, indicando que los factores edficos son los factores dominantes que determinan las distribuciones de estas plantas. El crecimiento de S. nuttallianum tambin fue reducido, a pesar de que los mismos sntomas fisiolgicos que demuestran intolerancia no estuvieron presentes como en otras especies. Potencialmente, interacciones competitivas con Sedum pulchellum, una especie similar pero de mayor tamao, son ms importantes en limitar la presencia de S. nuttallianum en afloramientos de piedra caliza que intolerancia fisiolgica a sustratos calcreos.
20424797|We examined Characodon audax (n = 30) and C. lateralis (n = 27) (Pisces: Goodeidae), endemic freshwater fishes from Durango, Mexico. We recorded 8 helminth species, and metacercariae of Posthodiplostomum minimum had the highest prevalence and highest mean intensity of infection. Specialist species included Salsuginus sp. (an undescribed monogenean) and the intestinal trematode Margotrema bravoae. These 3 species and larvae of the nematode Spiroxys sp. were the most frequent and abundant species. The remaining species were rare and found at low mean intensities. Intestinal helminth communities were comprised primarily M. bravoae, though most host intestines were free of macroscopic parasites. These data confirm the depauperate nature of the helminth communities of Goodeidae fish species in Nearctic Mexico. Helminth host specificity is suggested as an important factor for explaining the observed richness, and host feeding habits and local habitat characteristics are suggested as the main factors contributing to the variability observed in community composition and richness. /// Examinamos Characodon audax (n = 30) y C. lateralis (n = 27) (Pisces: Goodeidae), especies de peces dulceacucolas endmicas de Durango, Mxico. Registramos 8 especies de helmintos, y la metacercaria de Posthodiplostomum minimum fue la especie dominante y alcanz las mayores intensidades de infeccin. Especies especialistas incluyeron Salsuginus sp. (un monogeneo no descrito) y el trematodo intestinal Margotrema bravote. Estas 3 especies y la larva del nematodo Spiroxys sp. fueron las ms frecuentes y abundantes. Las dems especies fueron raras y se presentaron en bajas intensidades promedio. Las comunidades de helmintos intestinales fueron constituidas principalmente por M. bravoae, aunque la mayora de los intestinos resultaron vacos de parsitos macroscpicos. Los datos confirman la naturaleza pobre de las comunidades de helmintos parsitos de los Goodeidae del Nertico de Mxico. La especificidad hospedaria se sugiere como un factor importante para explicar la riqueza observada y los hbitos alimenticios del hospedero y las caractersticas locales del hbitat se sugieren como los factores principales que contribuyen a la variabilidad observada en la composicin y riqueza de la comunidad.
20424798|We sampled nonnative fishes stranded in isolated pools near Grand Falls in the Little Colorado River (LCR), Arizona, after the river ceased flowing (21 June and 12 July 2005) to evaluate whether nonnative fishes can invade the perennial, lower 21 km of the LCR from upriver sources. The encroachment of nonnative fishes could jeopardize resident populations of endangered humpback chub, Gila cypha, and other native fishes in the lower LCR. We captured red shiner, Cyprinella lutrensis; common carp, Cyprinus carpio; fathead minnow, Pimephales promelas; black bullhead, Ameiurus melas; and plains killifish, Fundulus zebrinus, all of which have been captured &gt;132 km downriver in the lower LCR and &gt;127 km upriver in the closest perennial sources. Moreover, we detected Asian tapeworm, Bothriocephalus acheilognathi, in 9 of 30 common carp examined. Our findings suggest that nonnative fishes, including those hosting parasites, can invade the lower LCR from upriver sources &gt;250 km away during freshets and provide a mechanism for the dispersal of invasive aquatic species in intermittent river systems. /// Muestreamos peces no nativos atrapados en cuerpos de agua aislados cerca de Grand Falls en el Little Colorado River (LCR), Arizona, despus de que ces la corriente (21 de junio y 12 de julio 2005) para determinar si peces no nativos son capaces de invadir desde la parte alta del ro hasta los 21 km bajos perennes del LCR. La invasin de peces no nativos puede perjudicar poblaciones locales del charalito (Gila cypha), y otros peces nativos en la parte baja del LCR. Capturamos sardinita roja, Cyprinella lutrensis, carpa comn (Cyprinus carpio), carpita cabezona (Pimephales promelas), bagre torito negro (Ameiurus melas) y sardinilla de las planicies (Fundulus zebrinus), los cuales han sido capturados &gt;132 km ms abajo en la parte baja del LCR y &gt;127 km ms arriba en las fuentes de agua perennes ms cercanas. Por otra parte, detectamos el cestodo asitico, Bothriocephalus acheilognathi, en 9 de 30 carpas comunes examinadas. Nuestros hallazgos sugieren que peces no nativos, incluyendo aquellos que mantienen parsitos, pueden invadir la parte baja del LCR desde las partes altas &gt;250 km de distancia durante crecimientos de corriente y proporcionan un mecanismo para la dispersin de especies acuticas invasoras en sistemas intermitentes de ros.
20424799|Little is known about the life history and habits, including the reproductive behavior, of Pimephales tenellus. I collected 182 individuals and transferred them into 10 aquaria; of these fish, 18 pairs spawned. Based on my aquarium observations, P. tenellus exhibited the egg-clustering strategy similar to the other species of Pimephales. /// Existe informacin limitada sobre la historia de vida y los hbitos de Pimephales tenellus, incluyendo su comportamiento reproductivo. Colect 182 individuos y los transfer a 10 acuarios; de estos peces, 18 pares desovaron. Basndome en mis observaciones de los peces en acuarios, P. tenellus exhibe una estrategia de agrupacin de huevos que es similar a la de las otras especies de Pimephales.
20424800|The exotic suckermouth armored catfishes are known to be established in Mexico. Pterygoplichthys multiradiatus is established in Campeche, Chiapas, and localities in central and western Mexico. We report the first record of another suckermouth armored catfish established in southeastern Mexico. We captured 7 specimens of Pterygoplichthys pardalis in a freshwater pond near Frontera, Tabasco, on 8 January 2005. Additional records in this region indicated that P. pardalis was spreading in the upper Grijalva-Usumacinta River basin. Further sampling and monitoring is required to assess the ecological impacts of this exotic species on the native fauna. /// Se sabe que los plecostomas exticos se encuentran establecidos en Mxico. Pterygoplichthys multiradiatus est establecido en Campeche, Chiapas y otras localidades del centro y oeste de Mxico. Reportamos el primer registro de otro plecostoma establecido en el sureste de Mxico. Siete ejemplares de Pterygoplichthys pardalis fueron capturados en una poza de agua dulce cerca de Frontera, Tabasco, el 8 de enero, 2005. Reportes adicionales en esta regin indican que P. pardalis se ha extendido en la cuenca superior del Grijalva-Usumacinta. Se necesitan muestreo y monitoreo adicional para estimar los impactos ecolgicos de esta especie extica en la fauna nativa.
20424801|We placed 24 pairs of adult San Marcos salamanders in small flow-through aquaria with rocks and aquatic moss. Some aquaria had clear marbles within tubes through which water upwelled into each aquarium. Seven clutches (eggs per clutch: mean = 34.7; range = 2 to 73) were produced during a 9-month period. Overall hatching success was 29.6%. One breeding pair reproduced 3 times (eggs per clutch: mean = 44; range = 27 to 59) at an average of 64-day intervals during a 191-day period. Once mature, a single female potentially could produce 176 eggs per year in captivity. /// Veinticuatro pares de adultos de salamandras de San Marcos fueron colocados en pequeos acuarios de agua corriente con rocas y musgo acutico. Algunos acuarios tuvieron canicas claras dentro de tubos a travs de los cuales el agua fluy en cada acuario. Siete puestas (huevos por puesta: promedio = 34.7; rango = 2 a 73) fueron producidas durante un perodo de 9 meses. El xito total de incubacin fue de 29.6%. Un par de crianza se reprodujo 3 veces (huevos por puesta: promedio = 44; rango = 27 a 59) a un promedio de 64 das de intervalos durante un perodo de 191 das. Una vez madura, una hembra potencialmente puede producir 176 huevos por ao en cautiverio.
20424802|The desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) has undergone significant declines in the past several decades. Thus, many carcasses are present across the desert landscape. Here we report on osteophagy by the desert tortoise, specifically the consumption of bones from deceased desert tortoises. Desert tortoises seem to have an appetite for calcium-rich substances. To our knowledge, this is the first documentation of desert tortoises consuming conspecific skeletal remains. /// La poblacin de tortugas del desierto (Gopherus agassizii) ha experimentado un decremento significativo en las ltimas dcadas. Por consiguiente existe un gran nmero de restos de tortuga en el terreno. Documentamos un fenmeno de osteofagia por parte de las tortugas del desierto, en particular el consumo de huesos de las tortugas muertas. Parece ser que las tortugas del desierto tienen un apetito por sustancias de alto contenido en calcio. Que tengamos conocimiento, sta es la primera vez que se documenta el consumo de desechos esquelticos conespecficos.
20424803|We detected buff-breasted flycatchers (Empidonax fulvifrons) while conducting surveys in the Rincon Mountains, Arizona, in 2000 (n = 2), 2004 (n = 4), and 2005 (n = 5). Our detections represent the first records of buff-breasted flycatchers in the Rincon Mountains since 1911, suggesting that this rare species has recolonized a portion of its historical breeding range. /// Detectamos mosqueros pecho leonado (Empidonax fulvifrons) cuando condujimos muestreos en las Montaas Rincn, Arizona, en el 2000 (n = 2), 2004 (n = 4), y 2005 (n = 5). Nuestras detecciones representan los primeros registros de mosqueros pecho leonado en las Montaas Rincn desde 1911, sugiriendo que esta rara especie ha re-colonizado una porcin de su rea histrica de reproduccin.
20424804|The common loon (Gavia immer) has occasionally been reported inland in northern Mexico. The first record in Coahuila, Mexico, was collected at El Tulillo reservoir in November 1986. The present record is more unusual, because it was collected on 12 June 2003, a late date for any location at this latitude. Damage caused by shotgun pellets to the ventral surface of both wings apparently prevented flight. This represents the second record for the state of Coahuila and the first record for the Cuatro Cinegas Valley. /// El somorgujo comn (Gavia immer) est reportado como ocasional en tierras interiores del norte de Mxico. El primer registro para el estado de Coahuila, Mxico, fue colectado en la Presa El Tulillo en noviembre de 1986. El presente reporte es ms inusual, dado que fue colectado el 12 de junio del 2003, demasiado tardo para cualquier rea en esa latitud. El dao causado por los perdigones de escopeta a la parte ventral de ambas alas le impidi volar. Este representa el segundo registro para el estado de Coahuila, y el primero para el Valle de Cuatro Cinegas.
20424805|Studies using artificial nests or remote cameras have documented avian predation by red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus). Although several direct observations of avian predation events are known in the northern range of the red squirrel distribution, no accounts have been reported in the southern portion. We observed predation upon a hermit thrush (Catharus guttatus) nestling by the Mount Graham red squirrel (T. h. grahamensis), an endangered subspecies living at the southern terminus of the distribution of the red squirrel. /// Estudios utilizando nidos artificiales o cmaras remotas han documentado la depredacin de aves por ardillas rojas (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus). Aunque se sabe de varias observaciones directas de casos de depredacin en aves en la parte norte de la distribucin de la ardilla roja, no se han reportado casos en la parte sur. Observamos una cra del tordo ermita (Catharus guttatus) depredada por la ardilla roja del monte Graham (T. h. grahamensis), una subespecie en peligro de extincin que habita en el extremo sur de la distribucin de la ardilla roja.
20424806|We examined nest tree preferences of northern flying squirrels (Glaucomys sabrinus) in an old-growth, mixed-conifer forest of Yosemite National Park, California. We tracked 8 individuals to 21 nest trees during July through September 2004. Flying squirrels selected nest trees that were larger in diameter and taller than either large nearest-neighbor or random trees. Flying squirrels showed no tree species preference, but used snags more often than live trees relative to their availability. Nest trees were not closer to perennial creeks than random trees. Results suggest that northern flying squirrels of Yosemite National Park might require large trees and snags, but unlike more xeric parts of the extreme southern Sierra Nevada, they might not be constrained by proximity to perennial streams. /// Examinamos las preferencias de rboles para nidos de las ardillas (Glaucomys sabrinus) en un bosque de rboles viejos de conferas mixtas en el Parque Nacional Yosemite en California. Seguimos 8 ardillas a 21 rboles para nidos de julio a septiembre del 2004. Las ardillas escogieron rboles para nidos que fueron ms grandes en dimetros y ms altos que rboles grandes cercanos o rboles escogidos al azar. Las ardillas no mostraron preferencia para especies de rboles pero usaron rboles muertos ms frecuentemente que rboles vivos en contraste a su disponibilidad. Los rboles para nidos no estuvieron ms cerca de arroyos permanentes que rboles escogidos al azar. Estos resultados sugieren que las ardillas del Parque Nacional Yosemite requieren rboles vivos grandes y rboles muertos, pero diferente de que en reas ms secas del extremo sureste de la Sierra Nevada, podran no estar restringidas por la proximidad a arroyos permanentes.
20424807|Reports of intraspecific strife among mountain lions (Puma concolor) have been presented in the literature. However, there are no published accounts of an actual field observation of lion behavior during an incidence of intraspecific strife. Here we provide a report of such an incident, in which a female mountain lion was killed by a male mountain lion in rural El Dorado County, California, in 2002. Observations from a field investigation of the site and the results of the necropsy of the female also are presented. The investigation indicated that the female lion was healthy and was not pregnant, lactating, or in estrus. Mortal injury was a skull fracture resulting in brain damage and hemorrhage. We suspect the female might have been killed while defending a deer kill or as prey of the male lion. /// Los informes de la disensin intraespecfica entre pumas (Puma concolor) se han presentado en la literatura. Sin embargo, no hay registros publicados de una observacin de campo del comportamiento del puma durante un incidente de disensin intraespecfica. Aqu proporcionamos un informe de un incidente, en el cual un puma hembra fue matada por un puma macho en condado rural de El Dorado, California, en 2002. Se presentan las observaciones de una investigacin de campo y los resultados de la necropsia de la hembra. La investigacin indic que la hembra puma estaba sana y no estaba embarazada, lactando, o en estrs. La lesin mortal fue una fractura del crneo dando por resultado dao cerebral y hemorragia. Sospechamos que la hembra pudo haber sido matada mientras defenda a un venado que ella mat, o como presa del puma macho.
20424808|We evaluated levels of body fat, body condition scores, live weight, and fetal rates of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) compromised by injuries from radiocollars and compared them to non-injured animals before and after those injuries had healed. Compromised animals had lower values for all parameters at the time injuries were discovered, and that pattern repeated itself 4 mo later when subjects again were examined. Investigators must consider ramifications of their activities for research subjects, as well as for research results. /// Evaluamos los niveles de grasa corporal, valores totales de la condicin corporal, peso del animal vivo, y tasas fetales del venado buro (Odocoileus hemionus) comprometidos por heridas sufridas a consecuencia de radio-collares, y los comparamos con animales no heridos antes y despus de que las heridas sanaran. Los animales comprometidos tuvieron valores ms bajos en todos los parmetros en el momento en que las heridas fueron descubiertas, y ese patrn se repiti 4 meses ms tarde cuando los sujetos fueron examinados nuevamente. Los investigadores deben considerar las ramificaciones de sus actividades de investigacin en los sujetos, al igual que los resultados de las mismas.
20424814|The blue fan palm (Erythea armata) oases of the Sierra San Pedro Mrtir, Baja California, Mexico, are unique not only because of their occurrence on the Pacific side of the Peninsular Range, but also because they span a steep transition from Mediterranean-type scrubland and pion woodland to the Vizcano and Colorado phases of the Sonoran Desert to the south and east. Here we describe soil-water relations and community composition in 3 grazed Pacific-side palm oases along a 20-km transect from Sonoran Desert at 700 m elevation (El Rincn), to an ecotone of mixed desert scrub, coastal scrub, and mountain chaparral at 900 m (San Miguel), to chaparral and pion-juniper woodland at 1,200 m (El Represo). Soil water was measured by using a neutron probe during an annual cycle. The palm grove at El Rincn had low soil water in the arroyo and oasis throughout the study period, although water was always present in pools both upstream and downstream. At San Miguel, pools were dry most of the time, but both the arroyo and oasis had moderate soil water, and the arroyo apparently received moisture by subsurface flow from nearby highlands. The seemingly dry oasis at El Represo had moderately high soil water, which was apparently maintained by a local seep. A total of 193 taxa were recorded, but only 30 (15.5%) were common to all 3 sites. In these communities, the Californian component diminished from 40 to 29% across the Californian-Sonoran transition, while Sonoran taxa decreased from 41 to 29% in the opposite direction. Determination of the most important species across this biome boundary revealed a strong Sonoran influence, even in the chaparral-pion-juniper site. Erythea armata seems to be a species particularly adapted to this arid transitional region. /// Los oasis de palma azul (Erythea armata) de la Sierra San Pedro Mrtir, Baja California, Mxico son nicos, no slo porque se encuentran en la vertiente del Pacfico de la cordillera peninsular, sino tambin porque ocurren en una zona de transicin que abarca desde matorrales y bosques californianos, hasta las fases Vizcano y Colorado del Desierto Sonorense hacia el sur y el este. Describimos las relaciones hdricas y composicin de la comunidad de 3 oasis de palmeras en el lado del Pacfico, ubicados a lo largo de un transecto de 20 km en una regin pastoreada que comienza en el Desierto Sonorense a 700 m (El Rincn), contina a travs de un ecotono con una mezcla de matorral costero y desrtico con chaparral a 900 m (San Miguel), y termina en bosque de pin y junpero a 1,200 m (El Represo). El contenido hdrico del suelo se midi con una sonda de neutrones durante un ciclo anual. El Rincn tuvo valores bajos de humedad en el arroyo y en el oasis a travs del perodo de estudio, a pesar de tener pozas permanentes de agua ro arriba y ro abajo. Las pozas en San Miguel permanecieron secas casi todo el tiempo del estudio, pero tanto el arroyo como el oasis registraron contenidos hdricos moderados y el arroyo aparentemente recibi humedad subsuperficial proveniente de tierra alta cercana. A pesar de su apariencia seca, el palmar en El Represo registr contenidos hdricos moderadamente altos, mantenidos por un manantial. Se registr un total de 193 taxa, pero slo 30 de ellos (15.5%) se encontraron en cada uno de los 3 oasis. En estas comunidades, el componente californiano decreci de 40 a 29% a travs de la transicin Californiana-Sonorense, mientras que los taxa sonorense disminuyeron de 41 a 29% en direccin opuesta. Al determinar las especies ms importantes a travs del lmite de este bioma se encontr una fuerte presencia de elementos del Desierto Sonorense an en la zona de pino pionero. Erythea armata parece ser una especie particularmente bien adaptada a esta rida regin transicional.
20424815|We examined the effects of water temperature on growth of Zizania texana (Texas wild rice), with a distribution in the wild restricted to the upper 4.9 km of the San Marcos River, Hays County, Texas. Plants were grown in tanks randomly assigned to 1 of 3 water temperature treatments: 15.5  1.5, 22.5  1.5, and 28.5  1.5C for 10 weeks during fall 2001. Leaf number, leaf length, and number of reproductive culms were recorded weekly for each plant. Biomass was recorded after 10 weeks. The effects of temperature, week, and their interaction were significant for leaf number and leaf length. Greatest mean leaf number occurred at week 10 for plants grown in 15.5C water (27.5  6.3); week 8 for 22.5C water (63.2  4.4); and week 9 for 28.5C water (42.4  5.5). Leaf length decreased in 15.5C water from 37.6  3.4 to 32.9  3.3 cm, but increased in 22.5C water from 41.0  0.6 to 62.0  2.6 cm and from 41.8  0.8 to 60.3  2.7 cm in 28.5C water. Plants grown in 15.5C water did not produce reproductive structures, and plants grown in 28.5C water produced more culms per plant (3.3  0.31) compared with plants grown in 22.5C water (0.57  1.07). Temperature influenced leaf, culm, root, and total biomass. Total biomass was less in 15.5C water. Leaf biomass differed among all treatments. Plants in 28.5C water allocated more biomass to reproductive organs compared with other treatments. Data from temperature recorders, placed at 4 locations downstream from the current range of Z. texana, showed that, although the mean temperature remained fairly constant among sites, the range of temperatures recorded increased with distance downstream. /// Examinamos los efectos de la temperatura del agua en el crecimiento de Zizania texana (arroz silvestre de Texas), cuya distribucin en la naturaleza se encuentra restringida a los 4.9 km superiores del ro San Marcos, Condado de Hays, Texas. Las plantas fueron cultivadas en tanques asignados aleatoriamente a 1 de 3 tratamientos de temperatura del agua: 15.5  1.5, 22.5  1.5 y 28.5  1.5C durante 10 semanas en el otoo del 2001. Para cada planta se registraron cada semana el nmero de hojas, la longitud foliar y el nmero de vstagos reproductivos. Despus de 10 semanas se registr la biomasa. Los efectos de temperatura, semana, e interaccin entre los factores fueron significativos para el nmero de hojas y la longitud foliar. El mayor nmero promedio de hojas ocurri durante la dcima semana para las plantas crecidas a 15.5C (27.5  6.3); la semana 8 a 22.5C (63.2  4.4); y semana 9 a 28.5C (42.4  5.5). La longitud foliar decreci en agua a 15.5C de 37.6  3.4 a 32.9  3.3 cm, pero se increment en agua a 22.5C de 41.0  0.6 a 62.0  2.6 cm y de 41.8  0.8 a 60.3  2.7 cm en agua a 28.5C. Las plantas crecidas en agua a 15.5C no produjeron estructuras reproductivas y las plantas crecidas en agua a 28.5C produjeron significativamente ms vstagos por planta (3.3  0.31) comparadas con las plantas crecidas en agua a 22.5C (0.57  1.07). La temperatura influy en la hoja, vstagos, raz y biomasa total. La biomasa total fue menor en agua a 15.5C. La biomasa foliar difiri entre todos los tratamientos. Las plantas en agua a 28.5C distribuyeron significativamente ms biomasa hacia los rganos reproductivos comparadas con los otros tratamientos. Datos obtenidos de sensores de temperatura colocados en cuatro posiciones ro abajo del rango actual de Z. texana mostraron que aunque la temperatura media permaneci casi constante entre los sitios, el rango de temperaturas registradas se increment con la distancia ro abajo.
20424816|African rue (Peganum harmala) is an herbaceous perennial plant native to arid and semiarid regions of northern Africa and Asian deserts that has spread to parts of the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. Despite its occurrence in many geographic regions, little is known about the biology and ecology of this invasive species. We conducted field studies on 2 populations of African rue in the northern Chihuahuan Desert to describe its vegetative and reproductive phenology. Overwintering, dormant plants in both populations commenced growth in mid March, grew through May and June, and initially senesced during June and July. Shoot development was synchronous between the 2 populations, but was not related to ambient or soil temperatures or precipitation. Onset of senescence was not related to calendar date or accumulated temperature. Flower production commenced at both sites in mid April, and fruit maturation occurred in June and July. Fruit maturation was related to calendar date and ambient temperature. In one population, senescent plants initiated new shoots in August and produced a second cohort of flowers. This renewed growth was not related to temperature, but likely triggered by midsummer precipitation. Therefore, African rue exhibits characteristic "drought evader" growth and reproduction strategies. This fundamental description of African rue phenology provides knowledge needed to manage this invasive species. /// La ruda (Peganum harmala) es una planta herbcea perenne nativa de las regiones ridas y semiridas del norte de frica y desiertos Asiticos que se ha extendido a partes del suroeste de los Estados Unidos y norte de Mxico. No obstante su ocurrencia en muchas regiones geogrficas, es poco lo que se sabe acerca de la biologa y ecologa de esta especie invasora. Realizamos estudios de campo en 2 poblaciones de ruda en el norte del Desierto Chihuahuense para describir su fenologa vegetativa y reproductiva. Las plantas inactivas invernales de ambas poblaciones comenzaron el crecimiento a mediados de marzo, crecieron durante mayo y junio, y envejecieron durante junio y julio. El desarrollo de tallos y hojas estuvo sincronizado entre las 2 poblaciones, pero no estuvo relacionado con las temperaturas ambientales o del suelo ni con la precipitacin. El inicio de la senectud no estuvo relacionado a la fecha del calendario o a la temperatura acumulada. La produccin de flores en ambos sitios comenz a mediados de abril y la maduracin de frutos ocurri en junio yjulio. La maduracin de frutos estuvo relacionada a la fecha del calendario y a la temperatura ambiental. En una poblacin, las plantas seniles iniciaron nuevos tallos y hojas en agosto y produjeron un segundo cohorte de flores. Este crecimiento renovado no estuvo relacionado a la temperatura, pero probablemente activado por la precipitacin a medianos del verano. Por lo tanto, la ruda exhibe estrategias de crecimiento y reproduccin caractersticas de un "evasor de sequas." Esta descripcin fundamental de la fenologa de la ruda provee conocimiento necesario para manejar esta especie invasora.
20424817|We used coarse-mesh and fine-mesh leafpacks to examine the importance of aquatic macroinvertebrates in the breakdown of floodplain tree leaf litter that seasonally entered a sand-bedded reach of the sixth-order Yampa River in semiarid Colorado. Leafpacks were positioned off the easily mobilized channel bed, mimicking litter trapped in debris piles. Organic matter (OM) loss was fastest for leaves collected from the floodplain and placed in the river in spring (k = 0.029/day) and slowest for leaves collected and placed in the river in winter (0.006/day). Macroinvertebrates were most abundant in winter and spring leaves, but seemed important to processing only in spring, when exclusion by fine mesh reduced OM loss by 25% and nitrogen loss by 65% in spring leaves. Macroinvertebrates seemed to have little role in processing of autumn, winter, or summer leaves over the 50-day to 104-day monitoring periods. Desiccation during bouts of low discharge and sediment deposition on leaves limited invertebrate processing in summer and autumn, whereas processing of winter leaves, which supported relatively large numbers of shredders, might have been restricted by ice formation and low water temperatures. These results were consistent with the concept that microbial processing dominates in higher-order rivers, but suggested that macroinvertebrate processing can be locally important in higher-order desert rivers in seasons or years with favorable discharge and water quality conditions. /// Utilizamos empaques de hojas con mallas finas y gruesas para examinar la importancia de macro invertebrados acuticos en la descomposicin de hojarasca en una zona de inundaciones que estacionalmente entra a los lmites arenales de un ro del sexto orden, el Ro Yampa en la parte semirida del estado de Colorado. Se colocaron empaques de hojas fuera del cauce principal del ro, imitando hojarasca atrapada en pilas. La prdida de materia orgnica fue ms rpida en hojas recolectadas de la zona de inundacin y colocadas en el ro durante la primavera (k = 0.029/da), y ms lenta en hojas recolectadas y colocadas en el ro durante el invierno (0.006/da). Los macro invertebrados fueron ms abundantes en las hojas del invierno y de la primavera, pero parecieron tener importancia en el procesamiento solamente durante la primavera, cuando la exclusin por malla fina redujo la materia orgnica en un 25% y la prdida de nitrgeno en un 65% en hojas de la primavera. Los macro invertebrados parecieron jugar un papel pequeo en el procesamiento de hojas del otoo, invierno o verano durante los perodos de 50 a 104 das observados. La disecacin durante perodos de poca descarga y el depsito de sedimentacin sobre hojas limitaron el procesamiento por parte de invertebrados durante el verano y otoo, mientras que el procesamiento de hojas del invierno, que alimentaba nmeros relativamente altos de trituradores, puede haber sido restringido por la presencia de hielo y temperaturas bajas de agua. Estos resultados fueron consistentes con el concepto de que el procesamiento microbiano domina en ros de alto orden, pero sugirieron que el procesamiento por macro invertebrados puede ser importante localmente an en ros de desiertos de alto orden durante temporadas o aos con condiciones favorables de descarga y calidad de agua.
20424818|We determined the diet of Chirostoma lucius from Lake Chapala and Guaracha Reservoir in central Mexico by stomach content analysis. Diet consisted primarily of juveniles of small Chirostoma species, as well as cladocerans and copepods. Seasonal change in prey showed high fish consumption in the rainy period, whereas crustacean consumption increased in the dry period. Diet varied with size, with smaller fish selecting large numbers of small zooplankton prey, whereas the largest size classes fed principally on fish. The size for the shift to piscivory was smaller in Lake Chapala (10 cm) than Guaracha Reservoir (14 cm), and the value for the pooled data of both populations was 12 cm. /// Determinamos la dieta de Chirostoma lucius en el lago de Chapala y la presa Guaracha en el centro de Mxico a partir del anlisis de contenido estomacal. La dieta consisti principalmente de juveniles de especies pequeas de Chirostoma as como de cladceros y coppodos. El cambio estacional en las presas mostr un mayor consumo de peces en el perodo de Iluvias mientras que los crustceos incrementaron en las secas. La alimentacin cambi con la talla, los peces de tallas pequeas consumiendo un gran nmero de presas chicas del zooplancton, mientras que las clases de tallas grandes se alimentaron preferentemente de peces. La talla para el cambio a la piscivora fue ms pequea en el lago de Chapala (10 cm) que en la presa Guaracha (14 cm) y el valor para los datos agrupados de ambas poblaciones fue de 12 cm.
20424819|We used bioenergetics models for humpback chub, Gila cypha, and rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss, to examine how warmer water temperatures in the Colorado River, Grand Canyon, Arizona, through a proposed selective withdrawal system (SWS) at Glen Canyon Dam, would affect growth, consumption, and predation rates. Consumption by the rainbow trout population was at least 10 times higher than by the smaller humpback chub population. Water temperature increases of 6C during autumn increased growth of humpback chub and likely increased their survival by reducing the time vulnerable to predation. Water temperature increases caused by drought in 2005 did not alter humpback chub growth as much as the SWS. Increased temperatures might cause changes to the invertebrate community and the distribution and abundance of other warmwater nonnative fishes. The implications on the entire aquatic community need to be considered before any management action that includes increasing water temperatures is implemented. /// Usamos modelos bioenergticos para el cacho corcovado (Gila cypha) y la trucha arcoiris (Oncorhynchuys mykiss) para examinar cmo las aguas ms tibias del Ro Colorado en el Gran Can en Arizona, debido al sistema propuesto de sacar agua selectivamente (SWS) en la presa Glen Canyon, influiran las tasas de crecimiento, consumo y depredacin. El consumo por la poblacin de la trucha arcoiris fue por lo menos 10 veces mayor que el por la poblacin menor del cacho corcovado. El aumento de la temperatura del agua de 6C durante el otoo aument el crecimiento del cacho corcovado y probablemente aument su supervivencia al reducir el tiempo en que estaba vulnerable a la depredacin. Los aumentos de la temperatura del agua causados por la sequa en 2005 no cambiaron el crecimiento del cacho corcovado tanto como el SWS. Es posible que los aumentos de temperatura causen cambios a la comunidad invertebrada y tambin a la distribucin y abundancia de otros peces no nativos de aguas tibias. Se deben tomar en cuenta las repercusiones a la comunidad acutica entera antes de implementar cualquier accin de manejo que incluya subir la temperatura del agua.
20424820|Parapharyngodon grismeri n. sp. from the intestines of the central Baja California banded rock lizard, Petrosaurus repens, and the San Lucan banded rock lizard, Petrosaurus thalassinus, is described and illustrated. Parapharyngodon grismeri n. sp. is the forty-second species assigned to the genus and differs from other species in the genus in that males possess posteriorly situated lateral alae, have cloacal lip adornment, and have spicules 116-128 m long; females possess alate eggs and a stout terminal spike. In addition to the new nematode species, gravid individuals of Oochoristica sp. (Cestoda: Linstowiidae), Spauligodon giganticus (Nematoda: Pharyngodonidae), and Strongyluris similis (Nematoda: Heterakidae) and larvae of Ascarops sp. (Nematoda: Spiruridae) and Physaloptera sp. (Nematoda: Physalopteridae) were found in P. repens, and S. giganticus, S. similis, and larvae of Physaloptera sp. were found in P. thalassinus. /// Parapharyngodon grismeri n. sp. del intestino de la lagartija de la piedra (Petrosaurus repens) y de la lagartija azul (Petrosaurus thalassinus) es descrita e ilustrada. Parapharyngodon grismeri n. sp. es la 42ava especie asignada al gnero y difiere de otras especies del gnero en que los machos poseen alitas laterales situados posteriormente, tienen un adorno del labio cloacal y espinas de 116-128 m de largo; las hembras tienen huevos con alitas y un robusto pico terminal. Adems de la nueva especie de nematodo, individuos grvidos de Oochoristica sp. (Cestoda: Linstowiidae), Spauligodon giganticus (Nematoda: Pharyngodonidae) y Strongyluris similis (Nematoda: Heterakidae) y larvas de Ascarops sp. (Nematoda; Spiruridae) y Physaloptera sp. (Nematoda: Physaloperidae) fueron encontrados en P. repens, y S. giganticus, S. similis y larvas de Physaloptera sp. fueron encontrados en P. thalassinus.
20424821|We studied niche segregation among 3 syntopic lizards, Uta stejnegeri, Uma exsul, and Aspidoscelis marmorata, in the sand dunes of Viesca, Coahuila, Mexico. In 2004, we analyzed both microhabitat and substrate niches during a warm season and a cold season. Niche breadth and overlap were calculated, and a selection index was used. Each lizard species selected microhabitats that focused on a single perennial plant species and a specific range of sand compactness. Uta stejnegeri was highly associated with the perennial Suaeda nigrescens and highly compacted sand. Uma exsul was associated with sites with deep, loosely compacted sand and Larrea tridentata. Aspidoscelis marmorata was associated with the occurrence of Prosopis glandulosa and moderately compacted sand. Associations described here could help to develop a future conservation and management program for these sand dunes, where the endemic U. exsul and other species are protected. /// Estudiamos la segregacin de nicho entre 3 especies de saurios sintpicos, Uta stejnegeri, Uma exsul y Aspidoscelis marmorata en las dunas de arena de Viesca, Coahuila, Mxico. En el 2004 analizamos el nicho de microhbitat y de sustrato durante una estacin clida y una fra. Se calcul la amplitud y el traslape de cada nicho, y se utiliz un ndice de seleccin. Cada especie de lagartija seleccion como su microhbitat una especie de planta perenne y un intervalo especfico de compactacin de la arena. Uta stejnegeri se encontr altamente asociada a la especie perenne Suaeda nigrescens y a suelos compactos. Uma exsul estuvo asociada con suelos profundos con arena no muy compacta y con Larrea tridentata. Aspidoscelis marmorata se encontr asociada a Prosopis glandulosa y a suelos con arena moderadamente compacta. Las asociaciones descritas en este estudio podran ayudar a desarrollar un futuro programa de manejo y conservacin de estas dunas de arena donde el saurio endmico U. exsul y otras especies estn protegidas.
20424822|We report the first information on seasonal abundance, sex ratio, body size, reproduction, and diet for a population of Thamnophis scalaris from the State of Mexico. Data were collected during 1992 and from 1998 to 2000 at Toluca. Thamnophis scalaris showed a bimodal peak of activity in spring-early summer and in autumn. The sex ratio of adults was significantly different from 1:1, but can be misleading because of the unknown natural history of T. scalaris. Sexual size dimorphism was only apparent in relative tail length of adults. Four litters were born from July 1 to 17. Mean litter size was 7.0  1.4 snakes per litter. Male and female neonates were of similar snout-vent length (SVL) and mass at birth. The sex ratio of neonates was 1:1. Of the stomachs examined, 81% contained earthworms and 19% contained vertebrates. Vertebrates (lizards and viperine snakes) were ingested only by T. scalaris &gt;40.0 cm SVL. This suggests an ontogenetic shift in the diet of T. scalaris. The mean vertebrate prey mass was 21.4  10.0% of snake mass. No differences were found in prey type between the sexes. /// Se reporta la primera informacin sobre la abundancia temporal, proporcin sexual, tamao corporal, reproduccin y dieta de una poblacin de Thamnophis scalaris del Estado de Mxico. Los datos fueron colectados en 1992 y de 1998 al 2000 en la ciudad de Toluca. Thamnophis scalaris tuvo un patrn de actividad bimodal en primavera- principio de verano y en otoo. La proporcin sexual de los adultos fue significativamente diferente de 1:1, pero puede ser malinterpretada debido al desconocimiento de la historia natural de T. scalaris. El dimorfismo sexual fue evidente slo para la longitud relativa de la cola de los adultos. Nacieron 4 camadas entre el 1 y 17 de julio. El tamao medio de la camada fue de 7.0  1.4 culebras por camada. El tamao (longitud del hocico a la cloaca, LHC) y el peso de las cras al nacer fueron similares entre machos y hembras con una proporcin sexual de 1:1. El 81% de las culebras tuvieron lombrices en los estmagos, y el 19% tuvieron vertebrados. Los vertebrados (lagartijas y serpientes viperinas) fueron ingeridos slo por T. scalaris &gt;40.0 cm de LHC. Esto sugiere un posible cambio ontognico de la dieta de T. scalaris. El peso medio de los vertebrados ingeridos fue el 21.4  10.0% del peso de las culebras. No se encontraron diferencias en el tipo de presa ingerida entre los sexos.
20424823|The tallgrass prairie historically burned every 2 to 3 y, removing the litter layer and leaving post-burn environments inhospitable to many terrestrial species. Selection pressures, such as lack of food and shelter and increased predation, are intensified for some species over limited time periods. To quantify predation pressures on large snakes, artificial snakes were placed in recently burned and long-term unburned areas of a grassland system in northeastern Kansas. Any disturbance to the original placement of the model snake was considered a predation attempt. Statistical models were used to estimate daily survival rates of individual artificial snakes within both habitat types. A group effect (burned vs. unburned) was selected as the single top model, garnishing &gt;93% of the support for the data. Survival estimates from this top model indicated artificial snakes in newly burned areas had significantly lower daily survival than those placed within unburned sites. Indirect evidence from destroyed artificial snakes indicated raptors were a major predator on large snakes. Overall herpetofaunal activity in burned areas was low during the first 20 d post-burn, with increasing activity throughout the rest of the season. However, activity within unburned areas was constant throughout the spring. Burning tallgrass prairie likely increases predation pressure on large snakes in the area for 1 to 2 mo following the burn due to the lack of cover against aerial predators. /// La pradera de pastos altos histricamente se quemaba cada 2 a 3 aos, removiendo la capa de hojarasca y dejando el entorno inhabitable para muchas especies terrestres. La presin de seleccin como la falta de comida y abrigo e incremento en la depredacin, se intensifican para algunas especies por periodos de tiempo limitados. Para cuantificar la presin de depredacin en las serpientes grandes, colocamos modelos de serpientes en reas recientemente quemadas y en reas que no fueron quemadas por un largo periodo de tiempo en un sistema de praderas de pastos en el noreste de Kansas,. Cualquier perturbacin luego de la colocacin original del modelo de la serpiente fue considerada intento de depredacin. Se utilizaron modelos estadsticos de destino conocidos para estimar la tasa de supervivencia diaria de los modelos individuales de serpientes en ambos hbitats. Un efecto de grupo (quemado vs. no quemado) fue seleccionado como el modelo principal, proveyendo &gt;93% del apoyo para los datos. La supervivencia estimada de este modelo superior indic que los modelos de serpientes en las reas recientemente quemadas tuvieron significativamente ms baja supervivencia diaria que modelos ubicados en sitios no quemados. La evidencia indirecta de modelos de serpientes destruidos indic que las aves rapaces fueron los principales depredadores de serpientes grandes. En general la actividad de la herpetofauna en reas quemadas fue baja durante los primeros 20 das posteriores a la quema, con creciente actividad a lo largo del resto de la estacin. Sin embargo, la actividad dentro de las reas no quemadas fue constante durante la primavera. Quemar la pradera de pastos altos probablemente aumenta la presin de depredacin en las serpientes grandes en el rea durante 1 a 2 meses despus de la quema debido a la falta de cobertura contra depredadores areos.
20424824|Secondary pine-oak (Pinus-Quercus) forests of the Sierra Madre Occidental are a dominant forest structure in Mexico, but have received little attention from ornithologists. In 2002, we recorded breeding birds and vegetation characteristics in a second-growth pine-oak forest in southwestern Chihuahua. We categorized birds into nesting guilds and predicted their response to forest management. We recorded 1,446 individuals representing 44 species. The most abundant species were in 4 nesting guilds: generalist, secondary cavity, ground, or shrub nesters (89% of observations). We rarely recorded species listed as endangered or under special protection. Second-growth forests were open canopy, uneven aged, and dominated by small pine trees. Pines in largest size classes had been removed and there were few large pine snags. We conducted limited surveys in an old-growth pine-oak forest in 2003. Despite lower effort, we recorded twice the number of primary cavity nesters, suggesting snags were limiting in second-growth forest. Shrub nesters were higher in abundance in the second-growth forest, suggesting removal of overstory increased shrubs. Understanding species-habitat relationships is essential for long-term conservation within this species-rich ecosystem. /// Los bosques secundarios de pino-encino (Pinus-Quercus) de la Sierra Madre Occidental son el tipo de vegetacin ms comn en Mxico, sin embargo han recibido muy poca atencin por parte de los ornitlogos. En el 2002, colectamos informacin de aves durante su poca reproductiva y caractersticas de la vegetacin en un bosque de segundo crecimiento de pino-encino en el suroeste de Chihuahua. Las aves colectadas se clasificaron en diferentes grupos segn su manera de construir nidos y se predijo su respuesta al manejo forestal. Colectamos informacin en un total de 1,446 individuos, que representaron 44 especies, siendo las ms abundantes las aves de 4 grupos de nidos: generalistas, de cavidad secundaria, terrestre o en arbustos (89% de las observaciones). Muy pocos individuos fueron de especies en peligro de extincin o bajo especial proteccin. Los bosques de segundo crecimiento se caracterizan por tener baja cobertura de dosel, no-coetneos y dominados por pinos pequeos. Los pinos grandes se haban sacado desde antes y slo quedaron pocos muertos en pie. En el 2003, se tomaron tambin datos en un bosque maduro de pino-encino en el que se encontraron, a pesar de menos intensidad de trabajo, el doble de individuos de cavidad primaria, sugiriendo que el nmero de rboles muertos en pie fue mayor que en el bosque de segundo crecimiento. Las aves con nidos en arbustos fueron ms numerosas en el bosque de segundo crecimiento, sugiriendo que mientras disminuye la cobertura del dosel aumentan los arbustos. Entender la relacin entre especies y hbitats es importante para la conservacin a largo plazo de este ecosistema rico en especies de aves.
20424825|Through the analysis of 458 barn owl (Tyto alba) pellets collected between 1981 and 1995 on 2 islands in the northern Gulf of California, Mexico, we found significant differences in the main components of the diet of barn owls on these islands, where introduced rodents, bats, and seabirds occur. On Rasa Island, the most important prey was Rattus rattus, followed by Myotis vivesi, Oceanodroma microsoma, Mus musculus, and 4 bird species. On Partida Island, the main prey was M. vivesi, followed by O. microsoma, R. rattus, and 3 bird species. The mean number of prey per pellet was higher on Partida Island (1.08) than on Rasa Island (0.91), but the mean biomass per pellet was higher on Rasa Island (75.8 g) than on Partida Island (25.8 g). The storm-petrels O. microsoma and O. melania were taken by barn owls in proportion to their abundance on both islands. Conversely, barn owls on Rasa Island ate more R. rattus than M. musculus, possibly because of the larger size of the former. Overall, our data suggest that barn owls in the Gulf of California behave as flexible predators that take prey according to availability and profitability. /// Por medio de anlisis de 458 regurgitaciones de lechuza (Tyto alba) colectadas entre 1981 y 1995 en 2 islas del norte del Golfo de California, Mxico, encontramos diferencias significativas en los componentes principales de su dieta en estas islas, donde se encuentran roedores introducidos, murcilagos y aves marinas. En Isla Rasa, la presa ms importante fue Rattus rattus, seguida por Myotis vivesi, Oceanodroma microsoma, Mus musculus y 4 especies de aves. En Isla Partida, la presa principal fue M. vivesi, seguida por O. microsoma, R. rattus y 3 especies de aves. El nmero promedio de presas por regurgitacin en Isla Partida (1.08) fue mayor que en Isla Rasa (0.91), pero la biomasa promedio por regurgitacin fue mayor en Isla Rasa (75.8 g) que en Isla Partida (28.5 g). La lechuza depred a Oceanodroma microsoma y O. melania de acuerdo a su abundancia relativa en ambas islas. Por el contrario, la lechuza en Isla Rasa mostr una preferencia por R. rattus sobre M. musculus, posiblemente debido al mayor tamao de la primera. En general, nuestros datos sugieren que la lechuza en el Golfo de California se comporta como un depredador flexible que consume a sus presas de acuerdo a su disponibilidad y beneficio.
20424826|As a group, kangaroo rats (Dipodomys) are considered almost exclusively nocturnal. Diurnal activity by kangaroo rats has occasionally been noted, but the anecdotal nature of these accounts suggests it is a rare occurrence. While using video cameras and recorders to collect data on food habits at nests of ferruginous hawk (Buteo regalis) and Swainson's hawk (B. swainsoni) on and near the Rita Blanca National Grassland in 2003 and 2004, we detected numerous D. ordii. We subsequently explored possible relationships between the frequency of capture of D. ordii by these raptors and the time of day and moon phase. We recorded 54 deliveries of D. ordii to 8 of 12 ferruginous hawk nests and 8 of 14 Swainson's hawk nests. D. ordii was captured throughout the course of the day; there were no relationships between hour block of day or moon phase with the number of deliveries. Our review of other diet studies for ferruginous hawk, Swainson's hawk, Harris' hawk (Parabuteo unicinctus), and prairie falcon (Falco mexicanus) revealed kangaroo rats accounting for 1.1 to 6.6% of prey used. In contrast to the prevailing view that kangaroo rats are almost exclusively nocturnal, our data and those from other diet studies of some diurnal raptors suggest kangaroo rats might be more active during diurnal periods than previously thought. Diurnal activity by kangaroo rats might be related to local forage conditions. A more complete understanding of diurnal activity patterns by kangaroo rats will require more focused examination of their behavior in relation to vegetation and climate conditions. /// Como grupo, las ratas canguro (Dipodomys) son consideradas casi exclusivamente de hbitos nocturnos. Actividades diurnas en las ratas canguro ocasionalmente han sido reportadas, pero la naturaleza anecdtica de estos registros sugiere que estas actividades son muy raras. Mientras usbamos cmaras de video y grabadoras para recolectar datos sobre los hbitos alimenticios en los nidos del gaviln herrumbroso (Buteo regalis) y del gaviln langostero (B. swainsoni) en o cerca de Rita Blanca Nacional Grassland en 2003 y 2004, encontramos numerosas D. ordii. Subsecuentemente exploramos la posible relacin entre la frecuencia de capture de D. ordii por estas aves rapaces y la hora del da y la fase lunar. Registramos 54 entregas de D. ordii a 8 de 12 nidos del gaviln herrumbroso y a 8 de 14 nidos del gaviln langostero. La captura de D. ordii fue durante el transcurso del da. No hubo relacin entre la hora del da ni la fase lunar con el nmero de entregas. Nuestra revisin de otros estudios sobre dietas del gaviln herrumbroso, gaviln langostero, halcn Harris (Parabuteo unicinctus) y halcn de la pradera (Falco mexicanus) revel que las ratas canguro contabilizan entre el 1.1 y 6.6% de la presa usada. Contrario a la idea actual de que las ratas canguro son de hbitos casi exclusivamente nocturnos, nuestros datos y otros datos de estudios de dietas de algunas aves rapaces diurnas sugieren que las ratas canguro tal vez son ms activas durante periodos diurnos de lo que antes se pensaba. La actividad diurna de las ratas canguro puede estar relacionada con condiciones locales de forrajeo. Para entender mejor los patrones de actividad diurna de las ratas canguro se necesitar examinar con mayor detalle su comportamiento con relacin a las condiciones climatolgicas y vegetales.
20424827|Research on the distributions of 2 species of pocket gopher in Kansas, the plains pocket gopher (Geomys bursarius) and the yellow-faced pocket gopher (Cratogeomys castanops), revealed large tracts of land within their distributions that neither species occupies. We hypothesized that habitat and land-use practices in these tracts exclude pocket gophers. To test this hypothesis, we compared the relative frequencies of soil-texture and land-cover types within unoccupied tracts with those in surrounding tracts where pocket gophers occur. Our results indicated that the unoccupied tracts consisted largely of areas with fine-textured soils that are planted to crops. The crops, mainly corn, wheat, and grain sorghum, were harvested and disked annually, and even the roadside ditches adjacent to the cropland were plowed and planted. We concluded that pocket gophers are unable to inhabit these areas because land-use practices have destabilized the habitats, eliminating both refugia and dispersal corridors. /// Investigaciones de la distribucin de 2 especies de tuza, Geomys bursarius y Cratogeomys castanops, en Kansas, USA, revelaron la existencia de grandes trechos de tierra dentro de sus rangos de distribucin que ninguna de las dos especies ocupa. Se hipotetiz que el hbitat y el uso del suelo en esos trechos excluyen a las tuzas. Para probar esta hiptesis, comparamos las frecuencias relativas de tipos de textura de suelo y tipos de cobertura entre los trechos no ocupados, con reas cercanas en las que stos si encontraban. Nuestros resultados indicaron que los trechos no ocupados consistieron en gran parte de reas con suelos de textura fina que son sembradas. Los cultivos, principalmente maz, trigo, y sorgo, fueron cosechados y los suelos fueron trabajados anualmente, incluso hasta las zanjas adyacentes que fueron aradas y sembradas. Concluimos que las tuzas son incapaces de habitar estas reas debido a que dichas prcticas han desestabilizado su hbitat, eliminando tanto refugios como corredores de dispersin.
20424828|Several aspects of the pollination biology of Justicia candicans were studied in a population located in central Sonora, Mexico. The species flowered from January to April during the studied year (2003). Its flowers secreted up to 4 L of nectar that had 41% sucrose. It is self-compatible and visited primarily by the resident hummingbird, Cynanthus latirostris, and occasionally by the common bee, Apis mellifera. /// Se estudi la biologa de la polinizacin de Justicia candicans en una poblacin de la regin central del estado de Sonora, Mxico. Esta especie floreci de enero a abril durante el ao de estudio (2003). Sus flores secretaron hasta 4 L de nctar con una concentracin de 41% de sucrosa. Esta especie es auto-compatible y es visitada principalmente por el colibr residente Cynanthus latirostris y la abeja comn Apis mellifera en menor escala.
20424829|We collected data on diet of the marbled toad (Bufo marmoreus) on conserved and disturbed areas of tropical dry forest on the coast of Jalisco, Mexico, during 2000 and 2001. Although the diet of B. marmoreus consisted of 19 prey taxa, the moderately low dietary diversity measure (H = 1.51) reflected the dominance in the diet of only 3 groups of prey: ants, beetles, and termites. Toads in the conserved area consumed greater proportions of ants (36.7% by volume), whereas toads in disturbed forest consumed greater proportions of beetles (53.1% by volume). Diet diversity was significantly lower in the disturbed area. However, abundance, size, and weight of toads was similar in both areas, suggesting that prey availability was not affected by disturbance. /// Registramos informacin sobre la dieta del sapo marmreo (Bufo marmoreus) en reas conservadas y perturbadas del bosque tropical seco en la costa de Jalisco, Mxico, durante el 2000 y 2001. Aunque la dieta de B. marmoreus consisti de 19 taxa de presas, el moderadamente bajo valor de diversidad (H = 1.51) reflej la dominancia en la dieta de solamente 3 grupos de presas: hormigas, escarabajos y termitas. Los sapos en el rea conservada consumieron mayor proporcin de hormigas (36.7% en volumen), mientras que en el rea perturbada consumieron mayor proporcin de escarabajos (53.1% en volumen). La diversidad de la dieta fue significativamente menor en el rea perturbada. Sin embargo, la abundancia, tamao y peso de los sapos fue similar en ambas reas, sugiriendo que la disponibilidad de las presas no fue afectada por la perturbacin.
20424830|The consumption of large (&gt;15 kg) mammals by Morelet's crocodile (Crocodylus moreletii) is poorly documented. We present field observations of necrophagy and interspecific kleptoparasitism (defined as the stealing of food from an individual by another individual) involving the consumption of domestic cattle (Bos taurus) and Baird's tapir (Tapirus bairdii) carcasses, respectively, by Morelet's crocodile in Belize. Our single observation of kleptoparasitism occurred when an adult crocodile fed upon and attempted to hijack a tapir killed by a jaguar (Panthera onca). Crocodiles gained access to the interior of carcasses by tearing through the abdominal wall (tapir) or expanding an opening made by feeding vultures (cattle); feeding then progressed to the limbs, neck, and head. Crocodiles quickly located and congregated at cattle carcasses, possibly attracted by large flocks of feeding vultures. Feeding aggregations were composed solely of adult crocodiles; juveniles and subadults were probably excluded by the presence of larger, dominant individuals. Crocodiles required 72 to 96 h to consume cattle carcasses. While our observation of kleptoparasitism is among the few yet reported for any crocodilian, we speculate that this foraging strategy is more widespread and has likely been overlooked by previous investigators, owing to the difficulty of observing feeding behavior in the wild. Collectively our observations suggest that large mammals represent an important, albeit rare and hitherto overlooked, food resource for adult C. moreletii in Belize. /// El consumo de grandes mamferos (&gt;15 kg) por el cocodrilo de pantano (Crocodylus moreletii) est escasamente documentado. Presentamos observaciones de campo de necrofagia y cleptoparasitismo interespecfico (definido como el robo de alimento de un individuo a otro individuo) incluyendo el consumo de cadveres de ganado (Bos taurus) y de tapir centroamericano (Tapirus bairdii), respectivamente, por el cocodrilo de pantano en Belice. Nuestra nica observacin de cleptoparasitismo ocurri cuando un cocodrilo adulto se aliment al hurtar un tapir que fue cazado por un jaguar (Panthera onca). Los cocodrilos pudieron entrar en los cadveres rasgando a travs de la pared abdominal (tapir) o extendiendo una abertura realizada por zopilotes al alimentarse (ganado); posteriormente la alimentacin progres hacia las extremidades, cuello y cabeza. Los cocodrilos rpidamente localizaron y se posesionaron de los cadveres del ganado, posiblemente atrados por las grandes parvadas de zopilotes alimentndose. Las agregaciones para alimentacin estuvieron compuestas nicamente de cocodrilos adultos; los jvenes y subadultos fueron excluidos probablemente por la presencia de los grandes individuos dominantes. Los cocodrilos invirtieron de 72 a 96 horas para consumir los cadveres de ganado. Aunque nuestra observacin de cleptoparasitismo se encuentra entre las pocas reportadas para cocodrilianos, creemos que esta estrategia de forrajeo se encuentra ms extendida y probablemente ha sido inadvertida previamente por los investigadores ante la dificultad de observar la conducta de alimentacin en la naturaleza. Colectivamente nuestras observaciones sugieren que los grandes mamferos representan una fuente de alimento importante, aunque rara y hasta ahora no registrada, para los adultos de C. moreletii en Belice.
20424831|We quantified the food habits of the endangered blunt-nosed leopard lizard (Gambelia sila), an endemic species of the San Joaquin Valley, California. Based on analyses of stomach contents and prey remains in scats, we determined that this species is an opportunistic predator that eats large numbers of orthopterans, coleopterans, and hymenopterans, with dipterans, hemipterans, and lizards taken in lesser numbers. These data are similar to the qualitative or unpublished data of previous studies, and also are similar to the food habits of the congeneric Gambelia wislizenii. /// Cuantificamos los hbitos alimenticios de la lagartija leopardo narigona (Gambelia sila) clasificada en peligro, una especie endmica del Valle de San Joaqun, California. Basados en el anlisis del contenido estomacal y restos de presas en heces, determinamos que esta especie es una depredadora oportunista que come muchos ortpteros, colepteros, e himenpteras, con dpteras, hempteros, y lagartijas en cantidades menores. Estos datos son semejantes a los datos cualitativos o no publicados de estudios previos, y son tambin semejantes a los hbitos alimenticios de la congnere Gambelia wislizenii.
20424832|An annotated checklist of the type specimens in the Herpetological Collection of the Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biolgicas (ENCB, I. P. N.), Mexico, is provided, which includes 6 holotypes and 37 paratypes of 6 species and 2 subspecies: Pseudoeurycea boneti lvarez and Martn, 1967 (holotype); Bipes caniculatus multiannulatus lvarez, 1966 (holotype, 23 paratypes); Dipoglossus legnotus Campbell and Camarillo-R., 1992 (holotype); Sceloporus torquatus mikeprestoni Smith and lvarez, 1976 (8 paratypes); Anolis alvarezdeltoroi Nieto-Montes de Oca, 1996 (holotype); Lepidophyma chicoasensis lvarez and Valentn, 1988 (holotype, 3 paratypes); Lepidophyma lowei Bezy and Camarillo-R., 1997 (2 paratypes); and Lepidophyma tarascae Bezy, Webb and lvarez, 1982 (holotype, 1 paratype). /// Se presenta la lista anotada de los ejemplares tipo depositados en la Coleccin Herpetolgica de la Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biolgicas (ENCB, I. P. N.), Mxico, la cual incluye 6 holotipos y 37 paratipos pertenecientes a 6 especies y 2 subespecies: Pseudoeurycea boneti lvarez y Martn, 1967 (holotipo); Bipes caniculatus multiannulatus lvarez, 1966 (holotipo, 23 paratipos); Dipoglossus legnotus Campbell y Camarillo-R., 1992 (holotipo); Sceloporus torquatus mikeprestoni Smith y lvarez, 1976 (8 paratipos); Anolis alvarezdeltoroi Nieto-Montes de Oca, 1996 (holotipo); Lepidophyma chicoasensis lvarez y Valentn, 1988 (holotipo, 3 paratipos); Lepidophyma lowei Bezy y Camarillo-R., 1997 (2 paratipos) y Lepidophyma tarascae Bezy, Webb y lvarez, 1982 (holotipo, 1 paratipo).
20424833|We collected 3 specimens of the rock squirrel (Spermophilus variegatus) in San Francisco Cotahuixtla, Oaxaca, Mexico, which represent the first record of this species for this state. The new record expands the distributional range southward by 85 km. /// Colectamos 3 especmenes de la ardilla de roca (Spermophilus variegatus) en San Francisco Cotahuixtla, Oaxaca, Mxico, los cuales son los primeros registros de esta especie para el estado. Los nuevos registros amplan la distribucin al sur por 85 km.
20424834|We report 14 new mammalian records for the state of Tlaxcala, Mexico, which equals half the total number of mammalian species previously known. Tlaxcala is the smallest state of Mexico, and it is mostly devoted to growing crops and raising cattle; therefore, these results are important for conservation of local biodiversity. /// Documentamos 14 nuevos registros de mamferos para el estado de Tlaxcala, Mxico, equivalentes a la mitad del nmero total de especies conocido anteriormente. Tlaxcala es el estado ms pequeo del pas y la mayora de su territorio es rea de cultivo y de crianza de ganado, por lo que estos hallazgos son de relevancia para la conservacin de la biodiversidad local.
20424838|Astrophytum asterias is an endangered cactus occurring in southern Texas and northeastern Mexico. The purpose of this study was to provide fundamental information about the reproductive biology of the species. Breeding-system experiments were conducted in Starr County, Texas. Pollination treatments were applied to explore whether the species is self-compatible or self-incompatible and whether plants are experiencing pollinator limitation. Treated (bagged) flowers were self-pollinated or outcrossed by hand, or allowed to naturally self-pollinate. Control flowers were unbagged and unmanipulated (open-pollinated). In each treatment and controls, we calculated mean fruit set and mean seed set per plant. Controls had 18.3% fruit set, with a mean seed set of 13.3  14.7 seeds. The outcross treatment resulted in 88.6% fruit set, with a mean seed set of 95.8  5.9 seeds. Median mean fruit and seed set in the outcross treatment were 1 and 92.7, respectively. Although some controls set fruit and seed, median mean fruit and seed set was 0. No fruit or seed was set in self-pollinated treatments. These results showed that the species is an obligate outcrosser. Reproductive success is, therefore, dependent on a vector to transfer pollen. The fact that fruit set and seed set were higher in hand-outcrossed flowers than in open-pollinated flowers suggests that A. asterias might be experiencing reproductive constraints in terms of availability or effectiveness of pollinators. /// Astrophytum asterias es una cactcea amenazada que se distribuye en el sur de Texas y noreste de Mxico. En este estudio intentamos proporcionar datos bsicos sobre la biologa reproductiva de esta especie. Los experimentos en el sistema reproductivo de esta especie se realizaron en un sitio en el condado de Starr, Texas. Se aplicaron diferentes tratamientos de polinizacin a las flores de diferentes individuos para conocer si la especie es autocompatible o autoincompatible, y para saber si est experimientando limitacin por polinizadores. En cada tratamiento y en los controles, calculamos el nmero promedio de frutos viables producidos y se calcul la produccin promedio de semillas por individuo. Los controles presentaron 18.3% de produccin de frutos con un promedio de 13.3  14.7 semillas. El tratamiento de polinizacin cruzada tuvo como resultado 88.6% de produccin de frutos, con una produccin promedio de 95.8  5.9 semillas. La media de la produccin de frutos y semillas en el tratamiento de polinizacin cruzada fue un fruto y el promedio de la media de produccin de semillas fue de 92.7. Si bien algunos de los controles produjeron frutos y semillas, el promedio de la media de produccin de frutos y semillas fue 0. No hubo produccin de frutos y semillas para los tratamientos de autofertilizacin. Estos resultados muestran que Astrophytum asterias posee cruzamiento exgeno obligado. El xito reproductivo entonces depende de vectores externos para el transporte del polen y la consecuente produccin de semillas. Nuestros resultados indican que, debido a que la especie es autoincompatible, A. asterias pudiera experimentar restricciones reproductivas en funcin de la disponibilidad o la eficacia de los polinizadores.
20424839|With global warming, flowering at many locations has shifted toward earlier dates of bloom. A steady increase in average annual temperature since the late 1890s makes it likely that flowering also has advanced in the northern Sonoran Desert of the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico. In this study, phenological models were used to predict annual date of spring bloom in the northern Sonoran Desert from 1894 to 2004; then, herbarium specimens were assessed for objective evidence of the predicted shift in flowering time. The phenological models were derived from known flowering requirements (triggers and heat sums) of Sonoran Desert shrubs. According to the models, flowering might have advanced by 20-41 d from 1894 to 2004. Analysis of herbarium specimens collected during the 20th century supported the model predictions. Over time, there was a significant increase in the proportion of shrub specimens collected in flower in March and a significant decrease in the proportion collected in May. Thus, the flowering curve -- the proportion of individuals in flower in each spring month -- shifted toward the start of the calendar year between 1900 and 1999. This shift could not be explained by collection activity: collectors showed no tendency to be active earlier in the year as time went on, nor did activity toward the end of spring decline in recent decades. Earlier bloom eventually could have substantial impacts on plant and animal communities in the Sonoran Desert, especially on migratory hummingbirds and population dynamics of shrubs. /// Con el calentamiento de la tierra, la floracin en muchos lugares ha cambiado hacia fechas ms tempranas. En el norte del Desierto Sonorensis del suroeste de los EEUU suroestes y del noroeste de Mxico, un incremento constante en la temperatura promedia anual desde los ultimos aos de la dcada de 1890 hace floracin avanzada en ste lugar ms probable. En sta investigacin, modelos fenologcos fureon usado para predecir la fecha anual del la floracin del la primavera en el norte del Desierto Sonorensis desde 1894 hasta 2004. Despus, ejemplares del herbario fueron examinado como pruebas objetivas del campio predicho en el tiempo de floracin. Los modelos fenologcos fueron basado en requistos conocidos de la floracin (estmulos climticos y sumas de calor) del arbustos del Desierto Sonorensis. Segn los modelos, la floracin pudiera ser avanzada 20-41 das desde 1894 hasta 2004. El anlsis de los ejemplares del herbario coleccinados durante el siglo vigsimo sustent los prediccines de los modelos. Con tiempo fueron un incremento significativo en la proporcin del los ejemplares de arbustos coleccinada con flores en marzo y un diminucin significativa en la proporcin coleccinada en mayo. Por lo tanto la curva de floracin, la proporcin de plantas con flores en cada mes, cambi hacia el principio del ao entre 1900 y 1999. ste cambio no poda ser explicado por la actividad de los coleccionistas, quines no demostraban una tendencia a estar ni ms activos ms temprano en el ao ni menos activos ms tarde en la primavera en los dcadas recientes. Con el tiempo la floracin ms temprana podra tener impactos importantes en los comunidades de las plantas y los animales del Desierto Sonorensis, particularmente con los picaflores migratorios y las dinmicas de las poblacines de los arbustos.
20424840|Reforestation of degraded lands in the tropics is one of the most important goals of ecological restoration. Restoration of montane wet forest is in progress at Hakalau Forest National Wildlife Refuge, Hawaii, using plantations of Acacia koa (koa), a canopy tree of montane wet forest. We used longhorned beetles (Plagithmysus claviger and P. varians) as indicator species to assess restoration. The beetles feed by boring into dead koa branches and are food for the endemic forest bird Hemignathus munroi. We quantified density of beetles in branches of koa from trees of 3 age categories: young plantations (3-8 y; 222 branches), older plantations (12-15 y; 212 branches), and canopy trees of intact forest (167 branches). We sampled by breaking dead branches into short pieces and counting the beetles within. Density of beetles was greater in canopy trees (4.89 beetles/branch) than in planted trees and was greater in older plantations (3.24 beetles/branch) than in younger plantations (0.90 beetles/ branch). Beetles were clumped in distribution among branches (coefficient of dispersion = 5.17). Mean basal diameter of branches in canopy trees (32.6 mm) was greater than in planted trees and was greater in older plantations (29.3 mm) than in young plantations (19.0 mm). In young and older plantations, branches that harbored beetles were larger than branches that did not, but in canopy trees there was no difference. Branch diameter had a positive effect on number of beetles per branch in all age categories. Koa plantations promote recovery of plant and animal biological diversity in degraded habitats formerly occupied by montane wet forest. /// Reforestacion de terrenas degredados en los tropicos es una meta mas importante de restoracion ecologia. Restoracion de montane bosque humedo esta en processo a Hakalau Bosque Nacional Refugio, Hawaii, usando plantaciones de Acacia koa (koa), un arbol de dosel de montane bosque humedo. Usamos escarabajos longicornos (Plagithmysus claviger y P. varians) a espieces indicadores para amillarar restoracion. Los escarabajos se alimentan por ataladrar agujeros en los ramas muertos de koa, y son comida por el pajaro indegeno del bosque Hemignathus munroi. Cuantificamos la densidad de escarabajos en ramas de koa de tres categorias de edad: plantaciones jovenes (3-8 anos; 222 ramas), plantaciones mas viejos (12-15 anos; 212 ramas) y arboles de dosel de bosques indegenos (167 ramas). Probamos por rompiendo ramas muertos a pedazos cortos y contamos los escarabajos dentro. La cantidad de escarabajos eran mas en arboles nativos del dosel (4.89 escarabajos/rama) que en arboles plantados, y fue mas alto en plantaciones viejos (3.24 escarabojos/rama) que en plantaciones jovenes (0.90 escarabajos/rama). Escarabajos se agrupaban entre los ramas (el coeficiente de la dispersin = 5.17). El diametro medio de ramas en arboles nativos (32.6 mm) fue mas que los de arboles plantadas, y fue mas en plantaciones viejos, (29.3 mm) que en los mas joven (19.0 mm). En ambos plantaciones, ramas que albergaban escarabajos eran mas grande que los ramas no los tenian, pero en arboles nativos no habia differencia. El dimetro de las ramas tiene un impacto positivo en la cantidad de escarabajos de cada rama para todas las categoras de edad. Plantaciones de koa promovia la recupracion de la diversidad de plantes y animals en habitaciones degredados occupado en tiempos pasados por bosques humedos de los montanas.
20424841|Elevation has strong effects on climate and biota. In Hawaii, elevation on volcanic mountains affects temperature, rainfall, vegetation, and fauna. The effect of elevation on animal distribution and abundance can be direct through effects on climate or, in the case of phytophagous insects, indirectly mediated through climatic effects on host plants. In montane wet forests dominated by Metrosideros polymorpha (ohia lehua) and Acacia koa (koa), longhorned wood-boring beetles (Cerambycidae, Plagithmysus) play an important role as decomposers of wood and as food for higher trophic levels. The beetles I studied feed exclusively on dead wood of koa. I assessed the effect of elevation on the density of longhorned beetles in plantations of koa at Hakalau Forest National Wildlife Refuge, Hawaii. Density per branch of longhorned beetles was more than twice as great in the low-elevation sample (1,620-1,650 m; 3.49 beetles/branch, n = 200) as in the high-elevation sample (1,880- 1,970 m; 1.61 beetles/branch, n = 200; t = 5.08, P &lt; 0.001). Beetles were contagiously distributed among branches at both low and high elevations (CD = 5.71). Size of branch had a consistent positive effect on density of beetles, although this effect was more pronounced at low elevation. Elevation affects biological diversity directly through climate and seasonality, and indirectly through climatic effects on key habitat features. Effects of seasonality and habitat features on longhorned beetles need further study in Hawaiian montane forest. /// La altura tiene efectos fuertes sobre clima y biota. En Hawai la altura de montaas vocnicas afecta la temperatura, la precipitacin, la vegetacin y la fauna. El efecto de la elevacin sobre la distribucin y la abundancia de los animales puede ser directo, por efectos sobre el clima, o, en el caso de los insectos fitfagos, mediado no directamente por efectos climatolgicos sobre las plantas hospederas. En los bosques altos y hmedos dominado por Metrosideros polymorpha (ohia lehua) y Acacia koa (koa), los escarabajos longicorneos perforadores (Cerambycidae, Plagithmysus) hacen un papel importante como descomponadores de madera y como alimento para los niveles trficos mas altos. Los escarabajos que estudi se alimentan exclusivamente en la madera muerta de koa. Evalu el efecto de la elevacin sobre la densidad de los escarabajos longicorneos en las plantaciones de koa en el Hakalau Forest Nacional Wildlife Refuge, Hawai. La densidad por rama de escarabajos longicorneos en la muestra recogida de la elevacin baja (1,620-1,650 m; 3.49 escarabajos/rama n = 200), fue mas que doble la densidad de la muestra recogida de la elevacin alta (1,880-1,970 m; 1.61 escarabajos/rama, n = 200; t = 5.08, P &lt; 0.001). Los escarabajos fueron distribuidos contagiosamente entre las ramas en las dos elevaciones, bajas y altas (CD = 5.71). El tamao de las ramas tenan un efecto positivo y consistente sobre la densidad de los escarabajos, aunque el efecto fue ms marcado en elevaciones bajas. La elevacin afecta la diversidad biolgica directamente por el clima y por la estacin del ao, y indirectamente por los efectos climatolgicos sobre las caractersticas dominantes del hbitat. El efecto de la estacin del ao y de las caractersticas del hbitat sobre los escarabajos de cuerno largo requiere ms estudio en el bosque hawaiano montaoso.
20424842|Archocentrus myrnae is a small Central American cichlid that breeds in crevices. This study describes reproductive behavior and associated changes in color patterns in this species. Unlike most other cichlids from that area, female A. myrnae establish territories and actively court males before spawning. During courtship, females exhibit a distinct coloration. Whereas presence of courtship by females and the reversed sexual dimorphism usually is connected to reversal of sex roles in other fishes, females of A. myrnae intensively care for their brood after spawning through the free-swimming stage. Males are less active during brood care. In the context of the high reproductive investment of females, the evolution and maintenance of courtship and ornamentation of females is not yet understood. /// Archocentrus myrnae es un cclido pequeo centroamericano que se aparea en grietas. El presente estudio describe la conducta reproductiva y los cambios asociados en los patrones de color en esta especie. A diferencia de muchos otros cclidos en esta rea, las hembras de A. myrnae establecen territorios y cortejan activamente a los machos antes del desove. Durante el cortejo, la hembra exhibe una coloracin distinta. Mientras que la presencia de cortejo por la hembra y el dimorfismo sexual invertido son usualmente asociados a la inversin del papel sexual en otros peces, las hembras de A. myrnae cuidan intensamente a sus huevos y a sus cras despus del desove, incluyendo hasta cuando las cras nadan por s mismas. Los machos son menos activos en el cuidado de los huevos y las cras. En el contexto de una alta inversin de la hembra en la reproduccin, la evolucin y el mantenimiento del cortejo por la hembra y su ornamentacin todava no se entienden.
20424843|The Devils River minnow (Dionda diaboli) coexists with at least 2 congeners and several other cyprinids throughout its range in southern Texas and northern Mexico. Larval and juvenile descriptions are needed to monitor D. diaboli larvae and juveniles as part of recovery efforts for this species of conservation concern. The purpose of this study was to describe and quantify characteristics of early life stages of D. diaboli from hatching to 128 d post hatch to facilitate larval and juvenile identification. Descriptive characters include mid-lateral band of melanophores by Day 8 (&gt;5.1 mm SL; &gt;5.4 mm TL), mid-lateral band of melanophores separate from a rounded caudal spot and lateral snout-to-eye melanophores by Day 16 (&gt;5.8 mm SL; &gt;6.3 mm TL), initial coiling of intestine by Day 32 (&gt;6.2 mm SL; &gt;7.2 mm TL), wedge-shaped caudal spot by Day 64 (&gt;8.7 mm SL; &gt;10.0 mm TL), and melanophores around scale margins and mid-lateral double dashes along lateral line by Day 128 (&gt;13.5 mm SL; &gt;16.0 mm TL). However, reliable separation among sympatric Dionda might not be possible until larvae and juveniles of congeners are described. /// Dionda diaboli coexiste con por lo menos dos otras especies del mismo gnero y unos cuantos ciprinos a travs de la regin surea de Texas y la regin nortea de Mxico. Disponibles se encuentran conceptos y estudios publicados acerca de cmo identificar especies ciprinas adultas. Sin embargo, no hay descripciones larvales ni juveniles disponibles las cuales son necesitadas para poder monitorear el pez D. diaboli durante su etapa larval y juvenil. Estas descripciones funcionaran como parte de los esfuerzos de recuperacin de esta especie que se encuentra amenazada en los Estados Unidos y en peligro de extincin en Mxico. Es por eso que el propsito de este estudio es describir y cuantificar las caractersticas de la especie en cuestin desde su nacimiento hasta 128 das despus de su nacimiento lo cual facilitar el poder identificar a esta especie durante su etapa larval y juvenil. Las caractersticas descriptivas de D. diaboli incluyen melanocitos laterales medios separados de una mancha circular en la regin caudal al octavo da. Para el da 16, melanocitos en la regin lateral de la boca que se estiran hasta los ojos comienzan a aparecer. Para el da 32, se nota el inicio del enroscamiento de los intestinos. Para el da 64, una mancha triangular en la regin caudal es aparente. Para el da 128, guiones dobles a travs de la lnea lateral y mrgenes de escamas son evidentes. Colectivamente, estas y otras caractersticas descritas en este estudio proveen un acontecimiento detallado del desarrollo de D. diaboli a travs de su etapa juvenil. Sin embargo, identificacin segura y precisa entre especies del mismo gnero ser escasa hasta que descripciones larvales y juveniles de diferentes especies en el mismo gnero sean realizadas.
20424844|Sex ratios are difficult to determine for anurans with short, seasonal breeding cycles. However, it is important to obtain accurate sex-ratio estimates of the reproductively mature individuals within a population, because a naturally biased sex ratio decreases effective population size. A population of Houston toads (Bufo houstonensis) was used as a model to examine sex ratios for an anuran with short breeding cycles. During March 2001-August 2004, 157 B. houstonensis were captured by drift fence-pitfall traps and breeding-pond surveys. A significantly male-biased sex ratio was evident for both capture methods, indicating a naturally occurring bias within the population. A mathematical simulation model tested the hypothesis that the bias could be a consequence of different ages at first reproduction. Results from the simulations indicated populations of adult Houston toads are likely male-biased because of the difference in age at first reproduction. /// Las proporciones de sexos (macho:hembra) son difciles de determinar en anuros con ciclos reproductivos estacionarios cortos. Sin embargo, es importante obtener proporciones de sexos acertadas de los individuos reproductivamente maduros dentro de una poblacin ya que un sesgo natural hacia uno de los dos sexos disminuye eficazmente el tamao de la poblacin. Una poblacin de sapos de Houston (Bufo houstonensis) fue usada como modelo para examinar las proporciones de sexos en anuros con ciclos reproductivos cortos. Desde Marzo del 2001 hasta Agosto del 2004, 157 B. houstonensis fueron capturados por medio de trampas estilo cerca-pozo y extensivas capturas en los estanques reproductivos. Se observ una proporcin de sexos con un marcado sesgo hacia los machos en ambos mtodos de captura, lo que indicaba la presencia natural de un sesgo hacia los machos dentro de la poblacin. Por medio de un modelo matemtico de simulacin se examin la hiptesis de que esta tendencia pueda ser una consecuencia de la existencia de diferentes edades de primera reproduccin. Los resultados de estas simulaciones indicaron que las poblaciones adultas de sapos de Houston son primordialmente masculinas debido a la mortalidad asociada con la postergacin de la maduracin sexual en las hembras.
20424845|As part of a recent project on the distribution and status of primates (Ateles geoffroyi and Alouatta palliata) in the tropical forests of northeastern Oaxaca, Mexico, we report the presence of spider monkeys (A. geoffroyi vellerosus) in a tropical dry forest south of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, Oaxaca, Mexico. During March and May 2003, we documented the presence of spider monkeys at 5 sites (2 direct observations and 3 indirect records based on vocalizations, presence of feces, and a carcass). The presence of spider monkeys in a landscape dominated by tropical dry forest suggests that this species has an ability to inhabit a broad range of tropical forest types. Two factors threatening the continued presence of monkeys at these sites are increasing forest destruction as a result of highway construction, and hunting and capture for the pet trade. /// Como parte de un proyecto sobre la distribucin y el estado de conservacin de los primates silvestres Ateles geoffroyi y Alouatta palliata en las selvas tropicales de la regin noreste del estado de Oaxaca, Mxico, reportamos la presencia de los monos araa (Ateles geoffroyi vellerosus) en una selva baja caducifolia localizada al Sur del Istmo de Tehuantepec. Durante los meses de marzo a mayo del 2003 registramos la presencia de monos araa en cinco sitios diferentes, dos fueron observaciones directas de individuos de esta especie, y tres fueron observaciones indirectas consistentes en vocalizaciones, excrementos y un cadver. La presencia de los monos araa en un paisaje dominado por selva baja caducifolia sugiere que tienen capacidad para habitar una amplia variedad de tipos de selvas. Dos factores que estn amenazando la permanencia de los monos son la destruccin de la selva aumentada por la construccin de una autopista y la cacera y captura de monos araa para el comercio de mascotas.
20424846|The current (1996-1997 survey) mammalian fauna of the Cuatro Cinegas Basin, Coahuila, Mexico, is compared with records of the past century as well as records from undated (pre-1953) owl-pellet records and undated (pre-1700) archaeological remains. The basin supports one of the largest freshwater areas in the deserts of northern Mexico and is located along the Sierra del Carmen-- Sierra Madre Oriental Filter-Barrier, between the arid Chihuahuan and tropical Tamaulipan biotic provinces. The freshwater environment has remained remarkably stable through Pleistocene climatic oscillations, but more recently has been subjected to human-induced impact. Comparison of archaeological, historical, and current mammalian fauna depicts the well-known extirpation of larger carnivores and ungulates by humans; the shift to a drier, more Chihuahuan environment; and loss of species during the past century, including the apparent and unexplained disappearance of 4 species of rodents from the basin. /// La fauna de mamferos actual del Bolsn de Cuatro Cinegas, Coahuila, Mxico (basado en un inventario de 1996-1997) es comparada con registros del siglo pasado, con descripciones anteriores basadas en registros sin fecha (antes de 1953) de egagrpilas de lechuza, y con restos arqueolgicos sin fecha (antes de 1700). El bolsn sostiene una de las reas de agua dulce ms grandes de los desiertos norteos de Mxico, y est situado a lo largo de la Barrera-Filtro de la Sierra del Carmen -- Sierra Madre Oriental, entre las provincias biticas Chihuahuense (rido) y Tamaulipeca (tropical). El ambiente de agua dulce se ha mantenido notablemente estable a travs de las oscilaciones climticas pleistocnicas, pero ms recientemente ha sido objeto de impacto inducido por humanos. La comparacin de la mastofauna arqueolgica, histrica, y actual representa la extirpacin bien conocida de grandes carnvoros y de ungulados por seres humanos; el cambio a un ambiente ms Chihuahuense, ms seco; y la prdida de especies durante el siglo pasado, incluyendo la desaparicin aparente e inexplicable de cuatro especies de roedores del bolsn.
20424847|Examination of cytochrome-b DNA sequences from specimens of Notiosorex crawfordi, the desert shrew, indicate that within this taxon there are at least 3 major subdivisions reflecting levels of variation more typical of species rather than subspecies. One of these cytochrome-b haplotypes was recently described as a previously unrecognized species; however, that paper was limited to the description of a species level name. We provide additional insight into subdivisions in N. crawfordi. One DNA haplotype is distributed in Texas, New Mexico, and eastern Arizona, a second haplotype in Arizona and Sonora, Mexico, and the third haplotype in Baja California, Mexico. Nucleotide sequences obtained from intron 7 of the nuclear gene, beta fibrinogen, support the conclusions that 2 of the haplotypes occur sympatrically in southeastern Arizona and are not hybridizing with each other. /// Examen de las secuencias de ADN del gen citocroma b en especimenes de Notiosorex crawfordi, la musaraa del desierto, indica que dentro de este taxn se encuentran por lo menos 3 subdivisiones mayores, reflejando niveles de variacin tpicos de especies y no de subespecies. Uno de los haplotipos del citocroma b fue descrito recientemente como una especie no reconocida previamente, pero ese manuscrito se limit a la descripcin de esa nueva especie. Proveemos ms informacin acerca de las subdivisiones dentro de N. crawfordi. Un ADN haplotipo habita en Texas, Nuevo Mxico, y el este de Arizona; el segundo habita en Arizona y Sonora, Mxico; y el tercero habita en Baja California, Mxico. Secuencias obtenidas del intron 7 del gen nuclear beta fibrinogene, apoyan las conclusiones de que 2 de los haplotipos ocurren simptricamente en el sureste de Arizona sin evidencia de hibridacin.
20424848|Mining has been cited as detrimental to bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis), but little research exists that has demonstrated those effects. We compared behavior of bighorn sheep while individuals were inside and outside of an active copper mine to determine if individual animals were altering their behavior relative to the active mine. We conducted this study in the Silver Bell Mountains, Arizona, from December 2003 to January 2005. We observed 3 radiocollared subadult males, 4 adult males, and 5 females, and recorded behavior throughout the daylight period. After accounting for differences by sex-age class (i.e., subadult male, adult male, female) and season (i.e., breeding, non-breeding), bighorn sheep fed less (6%) while inside the mine perimeter. Other behaviors (e.g., bedding, standing, alert, and interacting) were observed for similar amounts of time while within and outside the mine perimeter. Within sex-age classes, there were few differences in behavior. Subadult males fed less (mean difference = -18.6%, 95% C.I. = -43.1-6.0) and bedded more (mean difference = 14.3%, 95% C.I. = -40.9-69.4) while inside the mine. During the breeding season, adult males were alert less and interacted less (alert, mean difference = 4.1%, 95% C.I. = -1.63-9.9; interacting, mean difference = 3.1%, 95% C.I. = -5.7-11.9) while inside the mine. Females interacted more (mean difference = 0.37%; 95% C.I. = -0.01-0.8) while inside the mine area. Elements of modern mining activity (e.g., vehicular traffic, humans afoot near vehicles, sounds) might be predictable to bighorn sheep allowing them to habituate to those human activities. /// La explotacin minera se ha considerado como perjudicial para los borregos cimarrn (Ovis canadensis), pero hay poca investigaciones que demuestren estos efectos. Comparamos el comportamiento de los borregos cimarrn mientras los individuos estaban dentro y fuera de una mina de cobre activa, para determinar si el comportamiento de animales individuales era alterado relativamente por la actividad de la mina. Conducimos este estudio en las montaas Silver Bell, Arizona, de Diciembre de 2003 a Enero de 2005. Observamos 3 machos sub-adultos, 4 machos adultos, y 5 hembras con radio-collares y registramos datos del comportamiento usando muestras de un animal central durante el perodo de luz en el da. Despus de clasificar por sexo y edad (i.e., macho sub-adulto, macho adulto, hembra) y temporada (i.e., apareamiento, no-apareamiento), el borrego cimarron se alimento menos (6%) mientras estaba dentro de el permetro de la mina. Otros comportamientos (e.g., acostado, parado, alerta, interactuando fueron observados por periodos similares dentro y fuera del permetro de la mina. Entre el grupo de sexo y edad, hubieron pocas diferencias en el comportamiento de los borregos cimarrones dentro y fuera de la mina. Los sub-adultos machos se alimentaron menos (mean difference = -18.6%, el 95% C.I. = -43.1-6.0) y descansaron acostados ms (mean difference = 14.3%, el 95% C.I. = -40.9-69.4) cuando estuvieron dentro de la mina. Durante la estacin de apareamiento, los machos adultos estuvieron alerta e interactuaron menos (alerta, (mean difference = 4.1%, el 95% C.I. = -1.63-9.9; interacciones, (mean difference = 3.1%, el 95% C.I. = -5.7-11.9) durante el tiempo que estuvieron dentro de la mina. Las hembras interactuaron ms (mean difference = 0.37%; el 95% C.I. = -0.01-0.8) durante el tiempo que estuvieron dentro del rea de la mina. La actividad de la mina moderna (e.g., trafico vehicular, humanos a pie cerca de vehculos, ruidos) puede ser predecible para los borregos cimarrones, los cuales pueden habituarse a esas actividades humanas.
20424849|We documented range expansion of the Asiatic clam, Corbicula fluminea, in Colorado since its first occurrence in 1993 in the South Platte River drainage. Using recent surveys and literature records, we compiled known occurrences of the Asiatic clam over the past 12 y and determined that it has expanded beyond the initial confines of the Platte River and Arkansas River drainages into the Colorado River and San Juan River drainages. All previously reported occurrences are still extant and the species continues to spread to new localities, especially in the Arkansas River drainage. We speculate on potential negative impacts to native freshwater mussels in Colorado, but have not conducted any definitive studies. /// Deseamos documentar la extensin de la gama de la almeja Asitica, Corbicula fluminea, en Colorado desde el primera ocurrencia en 1993 en el drenaje del Ro South Platte. Usando exmenes y expedientes recientes de la literatura, compilamos ocurrencias sabidas de la almeja Asitica a partir de los docena aos pasados y determinada que las poblaciones se han ampliado ms all de los lmites iniciales de los drenajes del Ro Platte y del Ro Arkansas en los drenajes del Ro Colorado y del Ro San Juan. Todas las poblaciones previamente divulgadas siguen siendo extant y muchas continan a aumento a nuevos lugares, especialmente en el drenaje del Ro Arkansas.
20424850|Samples of 8 natural populations of Drosophila pseudoobscura inhabiting northern Mexico were cytogenetically analyzed. Twelve distinct chromosomal arrangements of the third chromosome were identified. Number of inversions at each locality varied from 6 to 8. A total of 468 third chromosomes were examined in the area of study, and relative frequencies of inversions in each population were calculated. The most common inversions in decreasing order of relative frequency were: TL, SC, OL, and CU; the other 8 inversions had frequencies &lt;10%. Each locality had 3-4 inversions that accounted for 80% of the total. All populations were heterogeneous. Relative frequency of each inversion did not form a gradient along the transect studied. Unexpected was the presence of the ST inversion, as well as the incidence, in some populations, at a moderate frequency, of the inversion OL. Another exception was the increase in frequency of the EP inversion compared with previous collections in the area. More information from the region is needed. /// Muestras de 8 poblaciones naturales de Drosophila pseudoobscura que habitan en el norte de Mxico fueron analizadas citogenticamente. Doce diferentes arreglos gnicos o inversiones en el tercer cromosoma fueron detectados. El nmero de inversiones en cada poblacin vari entre 6 y 8. Un total de 468 terceros cromosomas fueron analizados en el rea de estudio y la frecuencia relativa de las inversiones en cada poblacin fue calculada. Las inversiones ms comunes encontradas en orden decreciente a su frecuencia relativa fueron: TL, SC, OL y CU; las restantes 8 inversiones presentaron frecuencias menores al 10%. Cada localidad tuvo entre 3 y 4 inversiones representando hasta un 80% del total. Todas las poblaciones fueron heterogneas. Las frecuencias relativas de cada inversin no formaron un gradiente en el transecto estudiado. Inesperada fue la presencia de la inversin ST as como la presencia en algunas poblaciones, en frecuencias moderadas, de la inversin OL. Otra excepcin fue el incremento en frecuencia de la inversin EP cuando comparada con colectas previas en el rea. Ms informacin del rea es requerida.
20424851|I report an observation of a trapdoor spider (Cyrtaucheniidae; Aptostichus) depredating a western snowy plover chick (Charadrius alexandrinus) in San Luis Obispo County, California. /// Divulgo una observacin de predacin de una araa terafosa (Cyrtaucheniidae; Aptostichus)  un Chorlitejo patinegro cra (Charadrius alexandrinus) en San Luis Obispo County, California.
20424852|Only one species, Sceloporus variabilis, previously has been recorded in the diet of Cerrophidion tzotzilorum. Here I report 2 new prey items for this little known species of montane pitviper. I examined stomach contents from a juvenile C. tzotzilorum and found a skink (Sphenomorphus incertus) and an orthopteran in the family Acrididae. These prey species are similar to those eaten by other species of Cerrophidion. /// Solamente una especie, Sceloporus variabilis, ha sido registrada previamente en la dieta de Cerrophidion tzotzilorum. Aqu reporto dos nuevas presas para esta poco conocida especie de viperido montano. Examin el contenido estomacal de un espcimen juvenil de C. tzotzilorum y encontre una lagartija scncida (Sphenomorphus incertus) y un ortptero de la familia Acrididae. Estas especies de presa son similares a las ingeridas por otras especies de Cerrophidion.
20424853|In the Lower Rio Grande Valley of South Texas, Audubon's orioles (Icterus graduacauda) have declined substantially in the past 50 y, probably due to habitat loss, fragmentation, and brood parasitism by bronzed cowbirds (Molothrus aeneus). Tape playback of the song of Audubon's oriole, originally intended to better survey the oriole, also attracted bronzed cowbirds. Bronzed cowbirds flew silently into the nearest tree in 14.1% of 234 playbacks, whereas Audubon's orioles responded vocally or flew toward the recorder in 15.8% of playbacks. Bronzed cowbirds might use vocalizations of Audubon's oriole as a cue to find breeding pairs or nests of this secretive species, which usually forages and sings within dense foliage. /// En el Bajo Valle del Ro Grande del sur de Tejas, la poblacin de chorcha de cabeza negra (Icterus graduacauda) se ha disminuido de una manera substancial en los ltimos cincuenta aos. Esto se debe probablemente a la prdida de habitats, fragmentacin, o quizs al empollamiento parasitario practicado por los pjaros vaqueros bronceados (Molothrus aeneus). Grabaciones emitidas del canto de la chorcha de cabeza negra, que inicialmente estaban destinadas a la inspeccin de estos pjaros, tambin llamaron la atencin de los vaqueros bronceados. Los resultados indicaron que los vaqueros bronceados volaron silenciosamente al rbol ms cercano en un 14.1% de las 234 emisiones de las grabaciones del canto de la chorcha de cabeza negra mientras que las chorchas de cabeza negra respondieron vocalmente o volaron hacia la fuente del sonido grabado en un 15.8% del total de las emisiones. Los pjaros vaqueros bronceados pueden usar sonidos de la chorcha de cabeza negra como una gua para encontrar pares de cra o nidos de esta especie de conducta reservada que se alimenta de forrajes y que canta en medio de densos follajes.
20424854|We collected owl pellets from 4 counties to examine the distribution of prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) and other small mammals in the Texas Panhandle. We identified 797 individuals of 15 genera and species of small mammals from 207 owl pellets. Overall, the 5 most abundant small mammals, Peromyscus (331 individuals), Reithrodontomys (182 individuals), Cryptotis parva (74 individuals), Sigmodon hispidus, and M. ochrogaster (60 individuals), comprised 89% of all individuals identified. This study extends the known range of M. ochrogaster 24 km south and 13 km east of the previous record in Carson County, Texas, and provides new county records of M. ochrogaster in Armstrong and Ochiltree counties. Additionally, we identified C. parva in samples from Ochiltree and Carson counties and Notiosorex crawfordi in samples from Armstrong County, both of which represent new county records. Our results, along with other recent work on M. ochrogaster, suggest that this species is more widespread in the northern and central Texas Panhandle than previously reported. More work is necessary to determine the southern limit of this species in the Texas Panhandle. /// Nosotros colectamos pelotillas de buho de cuatro diferentes condados para examinar la distribucion de ratones de las praderas (Microtus ochrogaster) y otros pequeos mamiferos en el panhandle de Texas. Nosotros identificamos 797 individuos de 15 especies diferentes de pequeos mamiferos apartir de 207 pelotillas de buho. En general, los cinco pequeos mamiferos mas abundantes fueron Peromyscus (331 individuos), Reithrodontomys (182 individuos), Cryptotis parva (74 individuos), Sigmodon hispidus y M. ochrogaster (60 individuos), comprendiendo un 89% de todos los individuos identificados. Este estudio extiende el rango conocido de M. ochrogaster en 24 km al sur y 13 km al este respecto de lo anteriormente registrado en el condado de Carson, Texas, y provee nuevos registros para la especie M. ochrogaster en los condados de Armstrong and Ochiltree. Adicionalmente, nosotros identificamos C. parva en muestras de los condados de Ochiltree and Carson y Notiosorex crawfordi apartir de muestras del condado de Armstrong, todo lo cual representa nuevos registros para estos condados. Nuestros resultados, junto con otro trabajo reciente en M. ochrogaster sugieren que estas especies se estan diseminando en el area norte y central del panhandle de Texas. Trabajo adicional es necesario para determinar el limite sur de esta especie en el panhandle.
20424859|We examined influence of type of nest, olfactory attributes of nests, and size of egg on rates of predation of artificial ground nests in a tallgrass prairie site in Oklahoma during 1998-1999. Our objective was to investigate the role that odors of nests might play in predation of artificial grassland nests. In the first experiment, using eggs of the house sparrow (Passer domesticus) as bait, rates of predation on artificial reed nests purchased commercially were compared to artificial grass nests constructed from on-site vegetation. Rate of predation did not differ between type of nest. A second experiment tested effects of the odor of nests that mimicked presence of an incubating female. Artificial nests baited with eggs of the house sparrow were used with one-half being lined with 25-35 feathers from an adult house sparrow, and half being allocated no feathers. Overall depredation did not differ between these types of nest. In a third experiment, which tested effects of novel odors on predation, artificial nests were baited with either painted or unpainted eggs of the house sparrow. Nests with both types of eggs were depredated heavily (70-75% losses). A final experiment tested effects of size of egg by comparing predation among nests baited with eggs of the house sparrow, northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus), or domestic chicken (Gallus gallus). Nests with eggs of the house sparrow (smaller eggs) were preyed upon significantly more (75% cumulative losses) than nests with either eggs of the northern bobwhite or domestic chicken (both with 5% cumulative losses). Although our observed rates of predation on artificial nests were similar to those from studies of predation of both artificial and natural ground nests, our results indicated that odors associated with artificial nests were unimportant relative to size of egg with respect to predation at this grassland site. /// Examinamos la influencia del tipo de nido, atributos olfatorios del nido y tamao del huevo en la tasa de depredacin de nidos terrestres artificiales en una pradera de pastos altos en Oklahoma durante 1998-1999. Nuestro objetivo fue investigar el papel de los olores del nido en la depredacin de nidos artificiales en la pradera. En el primer experimento, utilizando huevos de gorrin domestico (Passer domesticus) como carnada, comparamos la tasa de depredacin entre nidos artificiales de juncos adquiridos comercialmente y los nidos artificiales de pasto construidos con la vegetacin del lugar. La tasa de depredacin no difiri entre ambos tipos de nidos. El segundo experimento examin los efectos de los olores del nido que imitaban la presencia de una hembra en incubacin. Se utilizaron nidos artificiales que tuvieron como carnada los huevos del gorrin domestico, y la mitad de nidos con 25 a 35 plumas de un gorrin adulto dentro del nido y la otra mitad sin plumas. La depredacin total no difiri entre estos tipos de nidos. En un tercer experimento, que prob los efectos de olores nuevos en la depredacin, los nidos artificiales tuvieron como carnada huevos de gorrin domestico con pintura y sin pintura. Los nidos con ambos tipos de huevos fueron altamente depredados (70 a 75% de prdidas). Un experimento final examin los efectos del tamao del huevo, comparando la depredacin entre los nidos con huevos de gorrin domestico, con huevos de codorniz cotuf (Colinus virginianus) y con huevos de pollo domesticado (Gallus gallus). Los nidos con los huevos de gorrin (huevos ms pequeos) fueron depredados significativamente ms (75% de prdidas acumuladas) que los nidos con los huevos de codorniz cotuf o con los huevos de pollo (ambos con 5% de prdidas acumuladas). Las tasas de predacin que observamos en nidos artificiales fueron similares a aquellas en otros estudios que comparan nidos artificiales y naturales. Aunque nuestras tazas de depredacin en los nidos artificiales fueron parecidas a las de estudios de la depredacin en los nidos artificiales y naturales, nuestros resultados indicaron que los olores asociados con nidos artificiales no fueron tan importantes como el tamao del huevo con respecto a la depredacin en esta pradera.
20424860|We studied seasonal variation in size and fidelity of home range in a population of eastern side-blotched lizards, Uta stejnegeri, in southern Coahuila, Mexico. Field work was carried out during the active seasons of 2002-2004. Home ranges during breeding and non-breeding seasons were larger for males than females and were reduced in both sexes during non-breeding months (autumn). There was greater intersexual overlap of home range during summer and less in autumn. Intrasexually, males had more overlap in home range than females (particularly during summer), which could be related to their large home ranges during that season. Fidelity to home range from one season to the next in a given year was similar in males and females. Although males had greater length and mass than females, neither measure correlated with size of home range. Density of adult lizards was negatively correlated with size of home range during the reproductive period. During non-reproductive months, density of all age classes combined was negatively correlated with size of home range. Our results indicate that home range sizes of U. stejnegeri vary considerably over the year and diverse factors are involved. /// Estudiamos la variacin estacional del tamao del mbito hogareo y el grado de fidelidad de individuos a sus mbitos hogareos en una poblacin de Uta stejnegeri al sur del estado de Coahuila, Mxico. El trabajo de campo se llev a cabo durante las estaciones de actividad del 2002-2004. Durante el perodo reproductor y no reproductor el mbito hogareo fue ms grande en los machos que en las hembras y ambos sexos redujeron su mbito hogareo durante el perodo de inactividad reproductora (otoo). Los saurios tuvieron reas con mayores traslapes intersexuales durante el verano y menores en otoo. Intrasexualmente, los machos mostraron reas ms traslapadas que las hembras (particularmente durante el verano), lo cual puede deberse al gran tamao de sus mbitos hogareos durante esta estacin. La fidelidad al mbito hogareo de una estacin a la siguiente dentro de cada ao fue similar en los machos y hembras. Aunque los machos fueron ms grandes y pesados que las hembras, ninguna de estas variables se relacion con el tamao del mbito hogareo. La densidad de saurios adultos se asoci negativamente con el tamao del mbito hogareo durante el perodo reproductor. Durante el perodo no reproductor, la densidad de todas las clases de edad agrupadas se asoci negativamente con el tamao del mbito hogareo. Estos resultados sugieren que el tamao del mbito hogareo de U. stejnegeri vara mucho durante el ao y que diversos factores se ven involucrados.
20424861|Two unmanaged sites (blackland prairie and deciduous woodland) in Walker County, southeastern Texas, were sampled monthly from February 2000 through January 2001 to determine effects of temperature and moisture on activity and population density of earthworms. The blackland-prairie grassland site supported an endemic earthworm fauna of two species of Diplocardia. A population of Diplocardia invecta was most numerous in the deep clay soil of this grassland site. The deciduous-woodland site supported a population of the exotic species Amynthas corticis (syn. Amynthas diffringens). This epigeic earthworm occurred in an isolated patch of disturbed, sedimentary clay soil in an otherwise sandy area. All observed D. invecta demonstrated seasonal vertical migration, but were quiescent from June to October. All observed A. corticis remained seasonally in the upper 10 cm of woodland soil, but were not observed during July, September, or October. Soil temperature and moisture at depths where earthworms occurred did not differ between the two sites from February through May and from November through January. Juvenile, adult, and total monthly population densities of both D. invecta and A. corticis varied due both to seasonal attrition and reproduction. /// Dos sitios no manejados (pradera de tierra negra y bosque caducifolio) en el condado Walker al sureste de Texas fueron mensualmente muestreados desde febrero 2000 hasta enero 2001 para determinar los efectos que la temperatura y humedad tienen sobre la actividad y la densidad poblacional de las lombrices de tierra. El sitio pradera de tierra negra contaba con una fauna de lombrices endmicas de dos especies de Diplocardia. Una poblacin de Diplocardia invecta fue ms numerosa en la parte profunda del suelo arcilloso de este pastizal. El sitio bosque caducifolio contaba con una poblacin extica de la especie Amynthas corticis (sin. Amynthas diffringens). Esta lombriz epigica se encontr en un parche aislado de suelo arcilloso sedimentario perturbado en un rea generalmente arenosa. Todas las lombrices observadas de D. invecta mostraron una migracin vertical estacional, pero se encontraron inactivas desde junio a octubre. Todas las A. corticis observadas se quedaron en la parte superior de 10 cm del suelo forestal, pero no se observaron en julio, en septiembre ni en octubre. No se encontraron diferencias entre los dos sitios en temperatura o en humedad a las profundidades en donde las lombrices habitaban desde febrero hasta mayo y desde noviembre hasta enero. Juveniles, adultos y la densidad poblacional mensual de ambas especies, D. invecta y A. corticis, variaron debido al desgaste y reproduccin estacional.
20424862|Species in the pleurocerid genus Elimia are important components of freshwater systems in the eastern United States, but little is known about their natural history. Using dual-simultaneous linear regression and principal components analyses, we show patterns of morphological change in two populations of E. comalensis from the Edwards Plateau, Texas. Both populations had similar rates of change for all shell measurements analyzed, and both showed similar decreases in growth as total length of shell increased. However, the size at which growth slowed was different between populations, and small shells tended to have a consistent shape, while larger shells were more variable. /// Aunque las especies del gnero Elimia son componentes importantes de los sistemas de agua dulce del este de los Estados Unidos, se sabe poco de su historia natural. Usando dos anlisis, uno de regresin linear dual simultnea y otro de componentes principales, mostramos patrones de cambio morfolgico en dos poblaciones de E. comalensis del Edwards Plateau, Texas. Las dos tuvieron tazas de cambios similares para todas las medidas de conchas analizadas y las dos tuvieron disminuciones similares en el crecimiento mientras la longitud total de concha aumentaba. Sin embargo, el tamao al que el crecimiento disminuy fue diferente entre las poblaciones y las conchas pequeas tendieron a tener una forma consistente y las conchas ms grandes fueron ms variables.
20424863|During colder months in temperate regions, non-migratory bats are suspected to remain relatively inactive during hibernation. I examined activity of bats November-March in a region of North America with moderate winter temperatures. Bats were captured in nets over water and along flyways in southern and central New Mexico. In 47 nights, I captured 401 individuals representing 12 species. Captures for 10 species represent records of bats previously unknown outside roosts during colder months in New Mexico. The western pipistrelle (Pipistrellus hesperus), silver-haired bat (Lasionycteris noctivagans), California myotis (Myotis californicus), pallid bat (Antrozous pallidus), and Brazilian freetailed bat (Tadarida brasiliensis) were captured frequently, whereas the western small-footed myotis (M. ciliolabrum), Townsend's big-eared bat (Corynorhinus townsendii), big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus), Allen's big-eared bat (Idionycteris phyllotis), hoary bat (Lasiurus cinereus), fringed myotis (M. thysanodes), and Arizona myotis (M. occultus) were captured infrequently. Except for A. pallidus, I documented many individuals of the commonly captured species feeding November-March, and I also saw many individuals drinking during those months. Body masses of most species were lowest in March. During the study, activity of bats was positively, but not significantly, correlated with ambient air temperature at dusk. In this region of North America, many individuals of several species do not hibernate for the entire winter nor do they migrate from the region. /// Se sospecha que durante los meses fros en regiones templadas, los murcilagos no migratorios permanecen relativamente inactivos durante la hibernacin. Examin la actividad de los murcilagos de noviembre a marzo en una regin de Norte Amrica con temperaturas moderadas de invierno. Los murcilagos se atraparon con una red arriba del agua y a lo largo de las vas areas por el sur y el centro de Nuevo Mxico. En 47 noches, captur 401 individuos que representan 12 especies. La captura de 10 especies representa nuevos registros de murcilagos fuera de sus perchas durante los meses fros en Nuevo Mxico. El pipistrelo occidental (Pipistrellus hesperus), el murcilago pelo plateado (Lasionycteris noctivagans), el murcielaguito de California (Myotis californicus), el murcilago plido (Antrozous pallidus), y el murcilago de cola libre (Tadarida brasiliensis) se capturaron con frecuencia, mientras que el murcielaguito occidental de patas cortas (M. ciliolabrum), el murcilago orejas de mula (Corynorhinus townsendii), el gran murcilago moreno (Eptesicus fuscus), el murcilago mula de Allen (Idionycterisphyllotis), el murcilago escarchado (Lasiurus cinereus), el murcielaguito de cola orlada (M. thysanodes), y el murcilago de Arizona (M. occultus) fueron capturados infrecuentemente. Con la excepcin de A. pallidus, muchos de los individuos de las especies ms capturadas se documentaron alimentndose durante noviembre a marzo, y tambin vi muchos individuos bebiendo durante esos meses. Las masas corporales de la mayora de las especies fueron ms bajas en marzo. Durante el estudio, la actividad de los murcilagos se correlacion positivamente pero no significativamente con la temperatura del aire al anochecer. En esta regin de Norte Amrica, muchos individuos no hibernan todo el invierno ni emigran de la regin.
20424864|Mixed conifer of southwestern Colorado is poorly understood in comparison to other common forests in this area, in part due to its compositional complexity. We identified four stand types in warm-dry, mixed-conifer forests; Abies concolor (white fir), Pinus ponderosa (ponderosa pine), Pseudotsuga menziesii (Douglas-fir), and Populus tremuloides (aspen). We examined how composition and abundance of understory varied across these four types, and assessed the correlation between biotic and abiotic variables and understory vegetation. Composition of understory community differed significantly among stand types, with aspen plots having the most distinct understory plant community. Total plant cover was significantly higher in aspen, and shrub richness was significantly higher in the Douglas-fir stand type. On average, for all stand types combined, shrubs dominated the understory cover (11.35%), followed by forbs (7.89%), and graminoids (4.34%). Multivariate multiple regression showed that several topographic site factors (distance to drainage, slope, and aspect) and characteristics of stands (white fir/ha, ponderosa pine/ha and basal area, and basal area of aspen) explained variability in the understory community. Univariate regression showed that variation in annual species richness and Simpson's diversity index were partially explained by stand type and site. Our findings illustrate the necessity to not simplify forest dynamics for all western forest types or even within one forest type (warmdry mixed conifer) for a general region. Implementation of forest management should be based on sitespecific knowledge within localized geographic regions to restore or preserve semi-natural communities within a range of natural variability. /// El bosque mixto de conferas del suroeste de Colorado es poco conocido en comparacin con otros tipos de bosques comunes en esta rea, en parte debido a su compleja composicin. Identificamos cuatro tipos de vegetacin arbrea dentro del bosque mixto templado y seco de conferas: Abies concolor (abeto blanco), Pinus ponderosa (pino ponderosa), Pseudotsuga menziesii (abeto de Douglas), y Populus tremuloides (lamo tembln). Examinamos cmo varan la composicin y la abundancia de las especies del sotobosque a travs de estos cuatro tipos y evaluamos la correlacin entre variables biticas y abiticas y vegetacin del sotobosque. La composicin especfica del sotobosque fue significativamente diferente entre los distintos tipos de vegetacin arbrea, siendo la ms diferente la comunidad vegetal del bosque de lamo tembln. La cobertura total fue significativamente ms alta en el bosque del lamo tembln, mientras que la riqueza de arbustos fue significativamente ms alta en el bosque del abeto de Douglas. Por lo general, reuniendo todos los tipos de vegetacin arbrea, la cobertura de arbustos fue la mayor parte del sotobosque (11.35%), seguida por las herbceas no graminoides (7.89%), y las gramneas (4.34%). Un anlisis de regresin mltiple indic que varios factores del sitio (distancia al drenaje, pendiente, y exposicin) y caractersticas del rodal (rboles por hectrea [TPH] del abeto blanco, del pino ponderosa, el rea basal [BA], y el BA del lamo tembln) explicaban la variabilidad en la composicin especfica del sotobosque. Los anlisis de regresin simple indicaron que la variabilidad en la riqueza de especies anuales y en el ndice de diversidad de Simpson fue parcialmente explicada por la composicin de los rboles dominantes y por variables del sitio. Nuestras conclusiones ilustran la necesidad de evitar la simplificacin de la dinmica forestal entre los tipos de bosque del oeste e incluso dentro de un mismo tipo (bosque templado y seco de conferos mixto) de una regin. La gestin forestal debe basarse en conocimiento especfico del sitio dentro de regiones geogrficas restringidas para restaurar o conservar las comunidades seminaturales dentro de un rango de variabilidad natural.
20424865|Distribution of the swift fox (Vulpes velox) has declined dramatically since the 1800s, and suggested causes of this decline are habitat fragmentation and transformation due to agricultural expansion. However, impacts of fragmentation and human-altered habitats on swift foxes still are not well understood. To better understand what effects these factors have on diets of swift foxes, scats were collected in northwestern Texas at two study sites, one of continuous native prairie and one representing fragmented native prairie interspersed with agricultural and fields in the Conservation Reserve Program. Leporids, a potential food source, were surveyed seasonally on both sites. Diets of swift foxes differed between sites; insects were consumed more on continuous prairie, whereas mammals, birds, and crops were consumed more on fragmented prairie. Size of populations of leporids were 2-3 times higher on fragmented prairie, and swift foxes responded by consuming more leporids on fragmented (11.1% frequency occurrence) than continuous (3.8%) prairie. Dietary diversity was greater on fragmented prairie during both years of the study. Differences in diets between sites suggested that the swift fox is an adaptable and opportunistic feeder, able to exploit a variety of food resources, probably in relation to availability of food. We suggest that compared to continuous native prairie, fragmented prairie can offer swift foxes a more diverse prey base, at least within the mosaic of native prairie, agricultural, and fields that are in the Conservation Reserve Program. /// La distribucin de la zorra de la pradera (Vulpes velox) ha disminuido dramticamente desde los aos 1800 y la transformacin y fragmentacin de su hbitat por la expansin agrcola han sido sugeridas como algunas de las causas. Sin embargo, los impactos de la fragmentacin y transformacin antropognica del hbitat de la zorra de la pradera todava no son bien comprendidos. Para entender mejor que efecto tienen estos factores en la dieta de la zorra de la pradera, se colectaron excretas en el noroeste de Texas en dos reas de estudio, una de pradera nativa continua, y otra de pradera nativa fragmentada por campos agrcolas y campos bajo el Conservacion Reserve Program. Se evalu el nmero de lagomorfos en ambas reas en cada estacin del ao por ser una fuente potencial de alimento. La dieta de las zorras de la pradera fue diferente entre reas: en la pradera continua se consumieron ms insectos, mientras que en la pradera fragmentada se consumieron ms mamferos, aves, y cultivos. El nmero de lagomorfos fue de dos a tres veces mayor en la pradera fragmentada y consecuentemente las zorras de la pradera consumieron ms lagomorfos en la pradera fragmentada (frecuencia de ocurrencia de 11.1%) que en la pradera continua (3.8%). La diversidad de la dieta fue mayor en la pradera fragmentada durante los dos aos del estudio. Las diferencias en la dieta sugieren que la zorra de la pradera es adaptable y se alimenta de manera oportunista, pudiendo explotar una gran variedad de recursos alimenticios probablemente en relacin a su abundancia. Consideramos que la pradera fragmentada puede ofrecer una mayor diversidad de presas que la pradera nativa, al menos cuando se trata de un mosaico de pradera nativa, campos agrcolas y del Conservation Reserve Program.
20424866|Mogollon voles (Microtus mogollonensis) live in grassy areas primarily in ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests. We evaluated effectiveness of measuring visual evidence of Mogollon voles to monitor their populations. We used presence of five types of visual evidence and a combined measure (Index of Visual Evidence) to examine relationships between rate of capture of voles, presence, and visual evidence. We conducted our study in six meadows in ponderosa pine forests in northern Arizona, comparing evidence of presence of voles and rate of capture in an area with high density to an area with low density of voles in each meadow. We used linear regression to determine associations between visual evidence of voles and rate of capture, and we used logistic regression to investigate which visual evidence of voles were best predictors of presence. Relative abundance of voles was correlated with all types of visual evidence of voles. Relative density of fresh feces was the best predictor of rate of capture, but the Index of Visual Evidence was the best predictor of presence of voles. To monitor Mogollon voles, resource managers could use the Index of Visual Evidence, or search for fresh fecal material on runways. /// Los ratones de mogolln (Microtus mogollonensis) habitan pastizales principalmente en los bosques de pino ponderosa (Pinus ponderosa). Evaluamos la eficacia de la medicin de rastros del ratn de mogolln para monitorear sus poblaciones. Usamos la presencia de 5 tipos de rastros y una medicin combinada (ndice de Evidencia Visual) para examinar las relaciones entre la tasa de captura de ratones, su presencia y rastro visual. Realizamos nuestro estudio en 6 pastizales en bosques de pino ponderosa del norte de Arizona, comparando rastros de ratn y tasa de captura en un rea con alta densidad y un rea con baja densidad de ratones en cada pastizal. Usamos regresin linear para determinar las asociaciones entre evidencia visual de ratones y tasa de captura, y regresin logstica para investigar que tipo de rastros del ratn predicen mejor su presencia. La abundancia relativa de ratones se correlacion con todas las seales del ratn (R  0.61, P  0.03). La densidad relativa de excremento fresco fue el mejor indicador para predecir la tasa de captura (
20424867|Effects of unpredictable, variable rainfall in arid systems on diets of adults and lambs of desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) are poorly understood. We determined associations based on analysis of feces between amounts of rainfall and composition and similarity (overlap and diversity) of diets of adults and lambs, and relationships between diets of adults and lambs, in the Sonoran Desert of central Arizona during 1999-2003. Drought occurred in 2 of 3 years during sampling of feces of adults, and in 1 of 3 years during sampling of feces of lambs. Composition and diversity of diets of adults were comparable during years of drought and normal rainfall, except that diets were not correlated between years when severe drought (31% of long-term average rainfall) followed normal rainfall. Composition and diversity of diets of lambs also were independent of amounts of rainfall, but dietary overlap between and within age groups was greater during years of increasing rainfall compared to previous years. We hypothesized that amounts of rainfall moderately influenced diets of adults and lambs of desert bighorn sheep, but diets generally were closely linked among years and between age classes, and associations tended to persist independently of amounts of rainfall. Improved quality of diets and higher production, particularly of forbs, were more important proximate factors than composition of diets in affecting differences in nutritional status of adults and lambs between drier and wetter years. Furthermore, selection of forage by lambs likely is learned, at least in part, through associations, particularly with their mothers, prior to weaning. /// Poco se entienden los efectos que las lluvias que se presentan de manera variable e impredecible en los sistemas ridos tienen sobre la dieta de los adultos y corderos del borrego cimarrn del desierto (Ovis canadensis). Determinamos las asociaciones basadas en el anlisis de heces fecales entre los niveles de lluvia y la composicin y similitud (superposicin y diversidad) de las dietas de adultos y corderos, as como las relaciones de las dietas de adultos y corderos, en el desierto Sonorense de la parte central de Arizona desde 1999 al 2003. Hubo sequas en 2 de 3 aos durante el muestreo de las heces fecales de adultos y en 1 de 3 aos durante el muestreo de heces fecales de corderos. La composicin y diversidad de dietas de los adultos fueron parecidas durante los aos de sequa y de lluvia normal, excepto que las dietas no fueron correlacionadas entre los aos cuando una severa sequa (31% del promedio de lluvia a largo plazo) sigui al perodo de lluvia normal. La composicin y diversidad de las dietas de corderos tambin fueron independientes de los niveles de lluvia, pero la traslapacin de dietas entre y dentro de los grupos de edad fue ms alta durante los aos con aumento de lluvia, comparada con los aos anteriores. Proponemos la hiptesis de que los niveles de lluvia tienen una influencia moderada en las dietas de adultos y corderos de borrego cimarrn, pero las dietas generalmente estuvieron estrechamente relacionadas entre los aos y entre las clases de edad, y las asociaciones persistieron independientemente de los niveles de lluvia. La mejora en la calidad de las dietas y la mayor produccin, particularmente de plantas herbceas, fueron factores proximales de mayor importancia que la composicin de dietas en afectar las diferencias en el estatus nutricional de adultos y corderos entre los aos de sequa y aos de lluvia. Adems, la seleccin de forraje por parte de los corderos probablemente es aprendida al menos en parte, por medio de las asociaciones, particularmente con sus madres, antes del destetado.
20424868|The California Channel Islands, USA, and Pacific Baja California Peninsula Islands, Mexico (hereafter referred to as the California islands), are known for their high levels of biodiversity and globally important colonies of seabirds. We document the history, impacts, and management of non-native mammals and summarize the current status of native, non-volant mammals on the California islands. Of the 26 species of native mammals on the California islands, including 6 species and 41 subspecies that are endemic, 10 populations have suffered extirpation or global extinction. All recent extirpations and extinctions resulted directly from non-native mammalian predators or indirectly via habitat degradation by non-native herbivores. In light of the devastating effects non-native mammals have had on the native insular biotas of the California islands, a variety of organizations have collaborated to eradicate 44 populations of non-native mammals from 19 California islands. Documentation of impacts of non-native mammals and timely implementation of successful eradication efforts are essential to the conservation of these and other insular ecosystems. /// Las California Channel Islands, USA, y la islas del Pacfico de Baja California (en adelante islas de California) son conocidas por sus altos niveles de biodiversidad y mundialmente importantes colonias de aves marinas. Documentamos la historia, impactos y manejo de los mamferos introducidos y reportamos el estado actual de los mamferos nativos no voladores en las islas de California. De las 26 especies de mamferos nativos de las islas de California, incluyendo 6 especies y 41 subespecies endmicas, 10 poblaciones han sufrido de extincin local o global. Todas las extirpaciones y extinciones recientes resultaron directamente de depredadores mamferos introducidos o indirectamente por la modificacin de hbitat causada por herbvoros introducidos. En vista de los efectos devastadores que los mamferos introducidos han tenido en las biotas nativas insulares de las islas de California, una variedad de organizaciones ha colaborado y ha erradicado 44 poblaciones de los mamferos no nativos de 19 islas de California. La documentacin de estos efectos y la implementacin oportuna de los esfuerzos de erradicacin son esenciales para la conservacin de estos ecosistemas y los de otras islas.
20424869|We conducted a rigorous monitoring program to develop appropriate conservation plans for swift foxes (Vulpes velox). We set 20 cage traps on 51 grids to estimate rates of occupancy in eastern Colorado. Every 50th grid was selected systematically with a randomly selected starting grid from a list of 2,566 grids ranked by percentage of shortgrass prairie. We trapped 31 August 2004-12 February 2005, with each grid trapped 3 nights. Upon capture, we marked individual foxes with a unique identifier, and determined gender prior to release. We centered a 6.4 by 8.0 km-rectangle over each grid trapped and calculated percentage of shortgrass prairie using a GIS. We caught 136 swift foxes on 40 grids, including 12 recaptures; 71% of captures were in grids with &gt;50% shortgrass prairie. We estimated the proportion of 4.8 by 6.4 km-grids in eastern Colorado occupied by swift foxes to be
20424870|Estimates of abundance commonly are used for assessing quality of wildlife habitat. However, disparities between abundance and fitness parameters make the utility of abundance for predicting quality of habitat questionable. We used survival of rodents and rates of capture to assess quality of habitat in greasewood scrub and sandhill prairie habitats at the United States Army Pueblo Chemical Depot, Pueblo, Colorado. Only the Ord's kangaroo rat (Dipodomys ordii) and the North American deermouse (Peromyscus maniculatus) were captured and recaptured enough to warrant statistical analysis. Apparent survival was modeled using temporal and seasonal patterns, vegetation cover, type of habitat, abundance of sympatric rodents, and abundance of grasshoppers. The most parsimonious models for survival of Ord's kangaroo rat incorporated abundance of bare ground at trapping sites, while the most parsimonious models for survival of North American deermice included amount of shrub cover at trapping sites. Although rates of capture for Ord's kangaroo rats and deermice were different between habitats, rates of survival did not differ between habitats. Suggestions that particular xeric-shrub habitats provide better quality of habitat for deermice and kangaroo rats should be framed using the relationship between rates of survival and abundance, instead of relying on abundance or rates of capture. /// Las estimaciones de abundancia por lo general sirven para evaluar la calidad ambiental silvestre. Sin embargo, las discrepancias entre los parmetros de abundancia y de adecuacin causan que se cuestione la utilidad del de abundancia para predecir la calidad ambiental. Utilizamos las tazas de supervivencia y la captura de roedores para evaluar la calidad ambiental en reas de la planta Sarcobatus vermiculatus y en las praderas arenosas en el United States Army Pueblo Chemical Depot, Pueblo, Colorado. Slo se captur y se recaptur a la rata canguro (Dipodomys ordii) y al ratn ciervo (Peromyscus maniculatus) lo suficiente para justificar el anlisis estadstico. Se model la supervivencia aparente en los patrones temporales y estacionales, la cubierta de vegetacin, el tipo de hbitat, la abundancia de roedores simptricos y la abundancia de saltamontes. Los modelos ms parsimoniosos para la supervivencia del D. ordii incluyeron la abundancia de suelo abierto en los sitios de trampa, mientras los modelos ms parsimoniosos para la supervivencia del P. maniculatus incluyeron la cantidad de cubierta de arbustos en los sitios de trampa. Aunque las tazas de captura para el D. ordii y el P. maniculatus se diferenciaron entre hbitats, las tazas de supervivencia aparentes no se diferenciaron entre hbitats. La sugerencia de que ciertos hbitats de arbusto xrico proveen un hbitat de mejor calidad para el P. maniculatus y el D. ordii debe ser formulada en base a la relacin entre las tazas de supervivencia y abundancia, en lugar de slo depender de la abundancia o de las tazas de de captura.
20424871|On a hilltop in central Arizona, males of the wasp, Astata boharti, exhibit fidelity to certain perch sites on the ground, while males of Astata occidentalis return to perch sites on the outer twigs of the limbs of trees and shrubs. As is true for other members of the genus, males of both species fly out from and then back to their perches, sometimes in response to passing insects. Both species are present during the late morning to early afternoon in September, when temperatures are still high in the Sonoran Desert. Although during this study, males of neither species were seen interacting with females, their behavior is convergent with that of a variety of other species of insects known to possess a mating system in which males wait for females to come to them at perch sites on hilltops. Hilltopping behavior has been previously documented for only a few crabronid wasps. /// Sobre una colina de Arizona central, los machos de la avispa Astata boharti presentan fidelidad hacia determinadas perchas en el suelo, mientras que los machos de Astata occidentalis regresan a perchas en ramitas exteriores de rboles y arbustos. Los machos de ambas especies, as como los de otras especies del gnero Astata, vuelan desde sus perchas y regresan a las mismas, ocasionalmente en respuesta a insectos en paso. Ambas especies estn presentes desde media maana hasta comienzos de la tarde en el mes de septiembre, cuando las temperaturas an son altas en el desierto de Sonora. Aunque durante este estudio no se observaron machos de ninguna de las dos especies interactuando con hembras, el comportamiento en que los machos esperan que una hembra pase junto a sus perchas en colinas u otras zonas elevadas es compartido por varias especies de insectos. Este comportamiento "hilltopping" ha sido documentado slo en pocas avispas de la familia Crabronidae.
20424872|Capture techniques are an important consideration for studies involving endangered or threatened species. Mortality or serious injury can cause an unfavorable reaction from the public and bias results. Safe and selective capture of jaguars (Panthera onca) depends on such factors as environmental conditions in the study area, accessibility, avoidance of nontarget animals, budget, time, mobility, and skills and training of the capture team. In consideration of these factors, trained cat hounds were chosen as a capture method for a study of jaguars in the Chaco of Paraguay. During winter months of June and July 2002 through 2006, representing 5 capture periods, 15 jaguars were captured and fitted with GPS-VHF collars during 92 days of hunting. Four of these 15 jaguars were recaptured and refitted with new collars. No jaguar was killed or injured during capture or recapture, and no nontarget animal, including jaguar kittens, was chased, captured, or harassed. Post-capture monitoring via telemetry indicated that 14 jaguars moved 1-5 km from capture site the following day, with Jaguar 2 moving 12 km the day after capture. Six collared jaguars were captured on camera 24 times. Camera-trap photos gave visual support that the collared jaguars remained in good physical condition. /// Las tcnicas de captura son de importante consideracin en el caso de estudios relacionados a especies amenazadas o vulnerables. Muertes o lesiones graves pueden causar una reaccin desfavorable de la opinin pblica e influir negativamente los resultados. La captura selectiva y segura del jaguar (Panthera onca) depende de factores tales como: condiciones ambientales y accesibilidad en el rea de estudio, prevencin de la captura de animales no deseados, presupuesto, tiempo, movilidad y el entrenamiento y la habilidad del equipo de captura. En consideracin a estos factores, para el estudio del jaguar en el chaco paraguayo, fueron escogidos como mtodo de captura sabuesos rastreadores de felinos. Durante los meses de invierno junio y julio de 2002 a 2006, en 5 periodos de capturas totalizando 92 das de persecucin, 15 jaguares fueron capturados y equipados con collares GPS-VHF. Cuatro de estos 15 jaguares fueron recapturados y equipados con collares nuevos. Ningn ejemplar fue matado o daado durante la captura o recaptura, as como ningn animal no objeto de estudio, incluyendo cachorros de jaguar, fue hostigado, capturado o acosado. El monitoreo va telemetra indic que 14 jaguares se trasladaron entre 1 y 5 km del sitio de captura el da siguiente, con el jaguar #2 trasladndose 12 km el da despus de la captura. Seis jaguares con collar fueron capturados por cmara 24 veces. Las fotografas de las cmaras trampas dieron apoyo visual de la buena condicin fsica en que se mantuvieron los jaguares equipados con collares.
20424873|The Mediterranean gecko (Hemidactylus turcicus) is an introduced nocturnal lizard that often can be seen on and around buildings in the southern United States and in its native Old World range. However, little is known about the factors that determine its selection of microhabitat, except that it does not actively thermoregulate. For example, geckos may forage near lights due to presence of higher concentrations of flying insects or they may select darker sites near refugia to avoid predators. This study investigates the influence of ambient light level (irradiance) and distance to a refuge on selection of microhabitat. During their normal activity period, 54 geckos were hand captured. Snoutvent length, mass, sex, irradiance, and distance to the nearest refuge (crack, crevice, or hole) were determined for each lizard at the time and place of capture. Juvenile geckos tended to be in areas with higher irradiance and farther from refugia than adults. All adults generally selected sites closer to refugia. Adult male and female geckos did not differ significantly in selection of microsites. Thus, we suggest that adult lizards, especially territorial males, exclude juveniles from sites closer to refugia, which are typically of lower irradiance. /// El gecko Mediterrneo (Hemidactylus turcicus) es una lagartija nocturna introducida en los Estados unidos que se encuentra en y alrededor de edificios en el sur de los Estados Unidos y en su territorio nativo del viejo mundo. Sin embargo, los factores que determinan su preferencia de microhabitato son en gran parte desconocidos, excepto por su inhabilidad de termoregulacion. Por ejemplo, geckos podran elegir cazar cerca de lugares iluminados debido a la presencia de insectos; podran escoger sitios oscurecidos y cercanos a sus refugios para evitar depredadores; podran elegir microhabitatos con una combinacin de estas dos alternativas; o quizas preferirian un microhabitato con otra caractersticas de mayor importancia. Este estudio investiga como el nivel de luz ambiente ("irradiance") y distancia a un refugio influyen la seleccin del microhabitato. Cicuenta y cuatro (54) geckos fueron capturados a mano durante perodos de actividad normal. La longitud del hocicovientre, la masa, el sexo, nivel de luz ambiente, y distancia al refugio ms cercano (hoyo o grieta) fueron medidos al momento y lugar de captura de cada gecko. Geckos juveniles suelen encontrarse en areas de alto nivel de luz ambiente y mas lejano de refugio. Geckos adultos en general prefirieron sitios mas cercanos a refugio. Las hembras prefirieron sitios oscuros mientras que los machos fueron encontrados en microhabitatos con alta irradicin, pero, geckos machos escogieron sitos ms cercanos al refugio comparado a las hembras. Por lo tanto sugerimos que los geckos adultos, especialmente machos territoriales, excluyen a geckos jeveniles de sitios ms cercanos a refugios los cuales tpicamente son de bajos niveles de luz ambiente.
20424874|I studied diet and life-history attributes of a population of the Texas river cooter (Pseudemys texana) in the South Llano River, a southern tributary of the Colorado drainage in southcentral Texas. Turtles were primarily herbivorous, consistent with other reports of diets of Pseudemys spp. Volumes of samples from flushing stomachs did not show the expected 3:1 log-log correlation with length of plastron, suggesting that the technique may vary in reliability as a function of body size. Length of plastron ranged from 78 to 161 mm in adult males and from 213 to 241 mm in adult females. Four clutches averaged 8.4 eggs, which averaged 41.9 mm in length and 26.9 mm in width. Compared to congeners, P. texana is small-bodied with large eggs and a high degree of sexual dimorphism in size. Data from other populations of P. texana suggest that the turtles in the South Llano are exceptionally small-bodied. /// Estudi la dieta y atributos del historial de vida de una poblacin de la Tortuga escurridiza de Texas (Pseudemys texana) en el ro South Llano, un tributario sureo del ro Colorado en el centro sur de Texas. Las tortugas fueron principalmente herbvoras, lo que es consistente con otros informes de las dietas de Pseudemys spp. Volmenes de muestras obtenidas por medio del mtodo de vaciar con agua el contenido estomacal no mostraron la correlacin esperada de 3:1 en escala log-log con el largo del plastrn, sugiriendo que la tcnica puede variar en confiabilidad como una funcin de tamao corporal de la tortuga. El largo del plastrn vari desde 78 a 161 mm en machos adultos y desde 213 a 241 mm en hembras adultas. Cuatro puestas promediaron 8.4 huevos, los cuales promediaron 41.9 mm de largo y 26.9 mm de ancho. Comparado con congneres, P. texana es de cuerpo pequeo con huevos grandes y un alto grado de dimorfismo sexual de tamao. Datos provenientes de otras poblaciones de P. texana sugieren que las tortugas del South Llano son de cuerpos excepcionalmente pequeos.
20424875|We collected two specimens of Reithrodontomys megalotis on Magdalena Island on the Pacific Ocean side of Baja California Sur. They represent the first insular record of the species in Mexico. These records extend the distribution range of the species about 450 km south of the southernmost record of R megalotis in Baja California. In addition, three previously unpublished localities in mainland Baja California are reported. /// Se colectaron dos especmenes de Reithrodontomys megalotis en isla Magdalena, en el ocano Pacfico de Baja California Sur. Representan el primer registro insular de la especie en Mxico. Estos registros extienden el rango de distribucin de la especie ca. 450 km al sur de la localidad ms surea de R. megalotis en Baja California. En adicin se reportan tres registros anteriormente no publicados en la pennsula de Baja California Sur.
20424876|One of two (50%) cave myotis, Myotis velifer, and one of five (20%) pallid bats, Antrozous pallidus, from Terrell Co., Texas, were infected with lecithodendrid trematodes, Acanthatrium alicatai Macy, 1940. A total of 22 specimens was collected from the small intestines of these two species of bats. This study documents two new host records and a new locality for this parasite. This also represents the second occurrence of the species since the original description &gt;65 years ago. In addition, three nematodes (Seuratum cancellatum) and a coccidian (Eimeria antrozoi) were found in one (20%) of the A. pallidus. A summary of endoparasites of both species of bats is presented. /// Uno de cada dos (50%) murcielaguitos de las cuevas, Myotis velifer y uno de cada cinco (20%) murcilagos plidos, Antrozous pallidus, del condado de Terrell, Texas, estuvieron infectados con tremtodos, Acanthatrium alicatai Macy, 1940. Veintids especimenes fueron recolectados de los intestinos delgados de estas dos especies de murcilagos. Este estudio documenta dos registros nuevos de anfitriones y una nueva distribucin geogrfica para este parsito. Esto tambin representa la segunda ocurrencia de la especie desde la descripcin inicial de este parsito hace ms de 65 aos. Adems, tres nemtodos (Seuratum cancellatum) y una Eimeria antrozoi fueron encontrados en uno (20%) de los A. pallidus. Se presenta un resumen de los endoparsitos de ambas especies de murcilagos.
20424877|We studied the ecology of a population of the spiny lizard, Sceloporus jarrovii, located in the central Chihuahuan Desert. We compared the ecology of this population to that of other populations of S. jarrovii. Males were larger in snout-vent length, width of head, length of head, and length of femur than females. Mean size of clutch was 5.7. Overall sex ratio did not different from 1:1. However, the sex ratio was 1:2 in spring and summer, and 2:1 in autumn (reproductive period). All lizards were associated with crevices. Size of crevice (thickness) did not increase with snout-vent length of lizards. Mean body temperature was 31.6C. Body temperature was related to air and substrate temperature. Of the four characteristics of crevices measured, only thickness of crevice was related to body temperature. /// Estudiamos la ecologa de una poblacin de la lagartija espinosa, Sceloporus jarrovii, localizada en el centro del desierto Chihuahuense. Comparamos la ecologa de esta poblacin con la de otras poblaciones de S. jarrovii. Los machos fueron ms grandes que hembras en tamao corporal, anchura y longitud de la cabeza, y longitud del fmur. El promedio del tamao de la camada fue de 5.7. La proporcin sexual total no difiri de 1:1 (machos a hembras). Sin embargo, la proporcin sexual fue de 1:2 en la primavera y verano; y de 2:1 en el otoo (perodo reproductor). Todas las lagartijas estuvieron asociadas con grietas. El tamao de la grieta (anchura) no se increment con la longitud hocico-cloaca de las lagartijas. El promedio de la temperatura corporal fue de 31.6C. La temperatura corporal estuvo relacionada a la temperatura del aire y del sustrato. De las cuatro caractersticas medidas de grietas nicamente la anchura de la grieta estuvo relacionada a la temperatura corporal.
20424878|We found alligator snapping turtle (Macrochelys temminckii) carcasses in association with northern river otters (Lontra canadensis) at two sites in Oklahoma in summer 2006. Both specimens of turtles were juveniles, and at least one had been hatched and head-started in captivity prior to being released. This specimen was part of a radiotelemetry study at Sequoyah National Wildlife Refuge in eastcentral Oklahoma. The second carcass was found while investigating recent sightings of northern river otters at Tishomingo National Wildlife Refuge in southern Oklahoma. With the exception of cannibalism observed in a study of diet of adult alligator snapping turtles, these are the first reports of specific incidences of likely postembryonic predation of alligator snapping turtles. /// Encontramos caparazones de la tortuga caimn (Macrochelys temminckii) en asociacin con nutrias de ro (Lontra canadensis) en dos sitios en Oklahoma en el verano del ao 2006. Ambas tortugas fueron juveniles, y por lo menos una haba nacido y haba sido criada en cautiverio antes de ser puesta en libertad. Este espcimen fue parte de un estudio radiotelemtrico en el Sequoyah National Wildlife Refuge en Oklahoma este-central. La segunda caparazn de tortuga fue encontrada durante la investigacin de avistamientos recientes de nutrias de ro en el Tishomingo National Wildlife Refuge al sur de Oklahoma. Con la excepcin de canibalismo observado en un estudio de la dieta de adultos de la tortuga caimn, estos dos incidentes son los primeros informes de la probable depredacin postembrinica de las tortugas caimn.
20424879|An ecologically based classification system, when accompanied by digitized maps of biotic communities, has been shown to be useful for plotting and assessing affinities of plants and animals in the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico. Because these maps show ecological relationships of plants and animals with their environment, maps of biotic communities can be especially informative when delineating and describing affinities of habitats. We have expanded the classification system and prepared a digitized, ecologically based, color map of the biotic communities of North America to assess distributions of organisms on a continental as well as regional scale. As such, this map also can be used as a sample frame to design and stratify surveys of animals. /// Se ha demostrado que un sistema de clasificacin ecolgicamente basado, cuando se acompaa de mapas digitalizados de comunidades biticas, es servicial para la representacin y evaluacin de afinidades de fauna y flora del suroeste de los Estados Unidos de Amrica y el noroeste de Mxico. Porque estos mapas muestran las relaciones ecolgicas entre fauna y flora con su medio ambiente, mapas de comunidades biticas pueden ser especialmente informativos a la hora de delimitar y describir afinidades de hbitat. Hemos ampliado el sistema de clasificacin y preparado un mapa digitalizado a color, ecolgicamente basado, de las comunidades biticas de Norte Amrica para evaluar las distribuciones de organismos a nivel continental as como regional. Este mapa tambin se puede usar como un modelo para disear y estratificar muestreos de animales.
20424880|Lizards that use perches may respond positively to structural features added to the landscape. Here, I describe preliminary observations of side-blotched lizards (Uta stansburiana) using dung piles of cattle as perches in an area where cattle were recently introduced in northwestern Utah. During timed surveys along transects, 89% of lizards were located on top of dung piles versus 11% on the ground. Dung piles might be used by lizards for basking or for feeding if invertebrate prey are attracted to dung. However, based on field observations, the best explanation for this behavior is that elevated positions atop dung piles enhance visibility for detection of prey while potentially reducing heat load. These findings support the notion that adding structural elements to the environment might improve habitat quality for certain lizards. /// Lagartijas que utilizan perchas pueden responder positivamente cuando se aaden estructuras al paisaje. Aqu, describo observaciones preliminares de la lagartija costado-manchado comn (Uta stansburiana) usando excremento de vaca como perchas en el noroeste de Utah en un lugar en el cual recin se ha introducido ganado. Durante muestreos fijos en tiempo a lo largo de transectos, 89% de las lagartijas se pos en las pilas de heces, mientras que el 11% se encontr en el suelo. Puede ser que el excremento sea utilizado por las lagartijas para asolearse o para alimentarse de invertebrados cuando estos son atrados por los excrementos. Sin embargo, la mejor explicacin para este comportamiento, basndose en las observaciones de campo, es que la posicin elevada encima de las heces ofrece a la lagartija mejor visibilidad para detectar a su presa y al mismo tiempo disminuye la ganancia de calor. Estos resultados apoyan la idea de que aadir elementos estructurales al ambiente puede mejorar la calidad ambiental para ciertas lagartijas.
20424881|We present the geographic range expansion of Peromyscus schmidlyi to the north (430 km). The two new localities represent the first record for the state of Sonora. These records show that P. schmidlyi may be present throughout the Sierra Madre Occidental. P. schmidlyi could have a similar range to the other endemic species of this region, such as Spermophilus madrensis, Sciurus nayaritensis, and Nelsonia neotomodon. /// Se presenta una expansin de la distribucin geogrfica de Peromyscus schmidlyi en 430 km hacia el norte. Las dos nuevas localidades son el primer registro para el estado de Sonora. Estos registros muestran que P. schmidlyi puede estar presente en la Sierra Madre Occidental. Es posible que P. schmidlyi tenga una distribucin geogrfica similar a la de otras especies endmicas en esta regin, como Spermophilus madrensis, Sciurus nayaritensis y Nelsonia neotomodon.
20424885|Much is known about movements of female white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). However, relatively few investigations have been directed toward free-ranging male deer and even fewer have involved mature (4 years old) males. Our objectives were to characterize utilization distributions and site fidelity, and to evaluate the subdominant-dominant-floater model using an extensive radiotelemetry dataset collected from male deer 1.5 years old in southern Texas. We generated home ranges and core areas of 96 males from 16,696 location estimates collected during January 1993-June 1995. Annual home-range size did not differ among age categories. Males maintained smaller home ranges during spring than during other seasons and old males (7 years old) displayed smaller seasonal home ranges than young or mature males. Deer exhibited greater fidelity to home range during summer than during spring, prerut, and rut seasons. We detected limited evidence supporting the subdominant-dominant-floater model. The high fidelity to home range between years that we saw suggests little between-year shifting; however, annual home-range sizes exceeded the acreage of most private landholdings, which should be considered when formulating management plans. /// Existe un amplio conocimiento sobre los patrones de movimiento de las hembras de venado de cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus). Sin embargo, pocas investigaciones se han enfocado en estudiar a venados machos silvestres y menos an a machos maduros (4 aos). Nuestros objetivos fueron caracterizar las distribuciones de uso y fidelidad al sitio, y evaluar el modelo subdominante-dominante-flotante utilizando una extensa base de datos de telemetra de venados machos 1.5 aos de edad en el sur de Texas. Generamos mbitos hogareos y reas ncleo para 96 machos de 16,696 ubicaciones estimadas colectadas entre enero de 1993 y junio de 1995. El tamao del mbito hogareo anual entre las categoras de edad no fue diferente. Los machos mantuvieron mbitos hogareos ms pequeos durante la primavera que en las otras estaciones y los machos viejos (7 aos) mostraron mbitos hogareos estacionales ms pequeos que los de machos jvenes o maduros. Los venados mostraron mayor fidelidad al mbito hogareo durante el verano que durante la primavera, antes de la estacin reproductiva y durante la estacin reproductiva. Encontramos evidencia limitada que apoya el modelo subdominante-dominante-flotante. La alta fidelidad observada al mbito hogareo entre aos sugiere poco cambio de un ao a otro; sin embargo, los tamaos anuales de los mbitos hogareos excedieron el tamao de la mayora de las tierras privadas, lo cual debe ser considerado cuando se diseen planes de manejo.
20424886|The tawny deermouse (Peromyscus perfulvus), a semiarboreal endemic in western Mexico, exhibits attributes associated with extinction vulnerability. In January 2003 and 2004, we conducted mark-and-recapture studies at Playa de Oro, Colima, Mexico. Each year, five 100-station live-trap grids (each station with one ground and one arboreal trap; 10 by 10 configuration) were set up for 8 nights in areas with dense vegetation. Only one tawny deermouse was caught in 2003. In 2004, we trapped 16 individuals (12 males, 4 females) 47 times, with 91.4% of captures being in arboreal traps. Captures in 2004 were at 25 stations, all on the same grid, in habitat representing a mixture of thorn forest, mangrove, and palm trees (density 13.6 mice/ha). Considering all 500 trap stations in 2004, we used stepwise logistic regression to evaluate differences based on 13 structural-vegetation measures of the 25 stations where tawny deermice were found versus the 475 where it was not caught. Tawny deermice tended to inhabit locations with trees close-by, sparse low-level vegetation, little litter, and dense highlevel vegetation. For the one grid where we caught tawny deermice (25 stations where present versus 75 absent), only distance to nearest tree was significantly predictive; mice avoided even small forest openings. Tawny deermice were trapped at only a small subset of sites within what heretofore has been considered its suitable habitat. Evidence of restricted spatial structure and other limiting demographic features indicate a need for increased concern in conservation of this endemic species. /// El ratn venado leonado (Peromyscus perfulvus) es una especie endmica y semiarborcola del oeste de Mxico que presenta atributos asociados a especies vulnerables a la extincin. En enero de 2003 y 2004 se realiz un estudio de marcaje y recaptura en Playa de Oro, Colima, Mxico. En cada ao se trabaj con trampas para ratones vivos en cinco cuadrantes (cada cuadrante con 100 estaciones, con una trampa en el estrato terrestre y otra en el arbreo, en una configuracin de 10  10) durante 8 noches en reas con vegetacin densa. En 2003 se captur slo un individuo, mientras que en 2004 se capturaron 16 (12 machos, 4 hembras), 47 veces, con el 91.4% de las capturas en el estrato arbreo. Capturas en 2004 fueron en 25 estaciones, todos en el mismo cuadrante, en un hbitat representado por una mezcla de bosque espinoso, manglar y palmas de coco (densidad 13.6 roedores/ha). Considerando las 500 estaciones de trampeo del 2004, se evaluaron 13 variables estructurales de la vegetacin, por medio de una regresin logstica paso a paso (25 estaciones donde los roedores estuvieron presentes vs. 475 ausentes). El ratn venado leonado tendi a habitar sitios con rboles cercanos, con vegetacin del estrato inferior escasa, la del estrato superior densa y con poca hojarasca. En el cuadrante donde se capturaron ratones venado leonado (25 estaciones presentes vs. 75 austens), slo la distancia al rbol ms cercano fue significativamente predictiva, la especie evit incluso los claros ms pequeos de la vegetacin. El ratn venado leonado utiliz solamente un subconjunto reducido de los sitios que hasta ahora se han considerado como un hbitat adecuado. La evidencia de la estructura espacial restringida y otras caractersticas demogrficas limitantes indican la necesidad de incrementar la categora de conservacin de esta especie endmica.
20424887|We measured size of home range (adaptive kernel and minimum convex polygon methods), size of nest trees, and distance to nest trees during nightly activity of 13 northern flying squirrels (Glaucomys sabrinus) in two types of forests in Plumas Co., California. We used 95 and 50% adaptive kernel and 95% minimum convex polygon analyses to determine home ranges. Juvenile males had smaller home ranges (6.3  1.6 ha) than adult males (25.5  4.0 ha). There was no significant difference in area of home range by gender or type of forest among adults. Mean size of home range was 29.3  4.5 ha for all adults. Most nests were cavities in live trees and snags, although some external nests were used. Mean distance from locations of northern flying squirrels to the nearest nest tree did not vary throughout the night; however, females tended to travel farther from nest trees. /// Medimos el tamao del mbito de hogar (mtodos de "adaptive kernel" y de polgono convexo mnimo), el tamao de rboles de anidamiento, y la distancia a los rboles de anidamiento durante la actividad nocturna de 13 ardillas voladoras norteas (Glaucomys sabrinus) en dos tipos de bosques en el condado de Plumas, California. Para determinar el tamao de los mbitos de hogar utilizamos el mtodo de "adaptive kernel" de 95% y 50% y del polgono convexo mnimo de 95%. Los machos juveniles tuvieron mbitos de hogar ms pequeos (6.3  1.6 ha) que los machos adultos (25.5  4.0 ha). En animales adultos no se encontr diferencia significativa en el rea del mbito de hogar segn el sexo o el tipo de bosque. El promedio del tamao del mbito de hogar para todos los adultos fue de 29.3  4.5 ha. La mayora de los nidos fueron cavidades en rboles vivos y muertos, aunque algunos nidos externos fueron utilizados. La distancia promedio de las localizaciones de las ardillas voladoras norteas al rbol de anidamiento ms cercano no vari durante la noche; sin embargo, las hembras tendieron a viajar ms lejos de los rboles de anidamiento.
20424888|We present the first non-breeding-season time budget of adult burrowing owls (Athene cunicularia). We evaluated the hypothesis that during the non-breeding season the gender-specific allocation of time and effort observed diurnally in the breeding season changes, with males and females exhibiting more similar time budgets. Owls spent most of their time alert (58.4  7.2% and 42.6  8.3%) and in the burrow (19.3  5.3% and 46.2  7.2% for males and females, respectively). Females tended to spend more time in the burrow, and males spent more time alert. Although we found little evidence for temporal variation of these patterns for males, females were found more often in the burrow during early afternoon. Our results support a hypothesis that time-allocation differences between males and females during the breeding season are at least partially retained into the nonbreeding season. The major finding of the study was the high percentage of time owls spent within the nest burrow during the non-breeding season, contrary to previous understanding of the ecology of this species from which management guidelines are based. Our findings indicate that considerable care should be taken when modifying areas that contain burrows within areas occupied by burrowing owls during the non-breeding season. /// Presentamos el primer presupuesto de tiempo de adultos de la lechuza llanera (Athene cunicularia) fuera de su poca reproductiva. Evaluamos la hiptesis de que la distribucin de tiempo y esfuerzo de los sexos en las actividades diurnas durante la poca reproductiva cambia en la poca no reproductiva, con machos y hembras exhibiendo presupuestos de tiempo con mayor similitud. Los bhos pasaron el mayor tiempo alertas (58.4  7.2% y 42.6  8.3% para machos y hembras, respectivamente) y en la madriguera (19.3  5.3% y 46.2  7.2% para machos y hembras, respectivamente). Las hembras tendieron a pasar ms tiempo en las madrigueras y los machos ms tiempo alertas. Aunque las hembras fueron encontradas frecuentemente en las madrigueras temprano en la tarde, encontramos poca evidencia en la variacin temporal de esos patrones para los machos. Nuestros resultados apoyan la hiptesis de que las diferencias de distribucin de tiempo entre machos y hembras durante la poca reproductiva son al menos parcialmente mantenidas fuera de la poca reproductiva. El resultado principal del estudio fue el elevado porcentaje de tiempo que las lechuzas pasaron en la madriguera de nido fuera de la poca reproductiva, al contrario del conocimiento previo de la ecologa de estas lechuzas, en el cual estn basadas las pautas de manejo de la especie. Nuestros resultados indican que se debe practicar mucha precaucin cuando se modifican reas con madrigueras de lechuzas llaneras fuera de la poca reproductiva.
20424889|The Mexican spotted owl (Strix occidentalis lucida) was listed as a threatened species under the Endangered Species Act in 1993. We developed a predictive, vegetation-based model for habitat of the species in the Jemez Mountains, New Mexico, using logistic-regression modeling techniques and analyzed seven habitat variables with six of the variables included in the final model. A plot analysis using Receiver Operating Characteristics indicated a high performance of the model, and validation of the model confirmed proper function. Compared with random unoccupied sites, the model indicates that owls in the Jemez Mountains prefer habitat with greater diversity, density, and height of trees, canopy cover, and shrub density, which is in agreement with much of the literature on biology of the Mexican spotted owl. This model can be used with fine-scale assessments of habitat for land-management agencies that have a priority to accurately delineate habitat of the Mexican spotted owl. Los Alamos National Laboratory will use this model to re-delineate habitat of owls to reduce assessment costs and to better protect appropriate habitat. /// El bho manchado mexicano (Strix occidentalis lucida) fue puesto en la lista de especies amenazadas en 1993 bajo el Acto de Especies Amenazadas. Desarrollamos un modelo de prediccin de hbitat basado en la vegetacin para la especie en las Jemez Mountains en Nuevo Mxico utilizando tcnicas de modelacin de regresin logstica. Analizamos siete variables de hbitat con seis de las variables incluidas en el modelo final. Un anlisis de parcelas usando Caractersticas de Operacin para el Recibidor indic un alto rendimiento del modelo, y la validacin del modelo confirm la funcin apropiada. Comparado con sitios aleatorios no ocupados, el modelo indica que los bhos de las Jemez Mountains prefieren el hbitat con una mayor diversidad, densidad, altura y cubierta de dosel de rboles, y densidad de arbustos, lo cual est de acuerdo con mucha de la literatura sobre la biologa del bho manchado mexicano. Este modelo se puede utilizar para llevar a cabo evaluaciones muy finas del hbitat para las agencias de manejo de terreno que tienen la prioridad de delinear exactamente el hbitat del bho manchado mexicano. El Laboratorio Nacional de Los Alamos utilizar este modelo para delinear de nuevo el hbitat del bho para as reducir los costos de evaluacin y para proteger mejor el hbitat apropiado.
20424890|Growth boxes were used in a greenhouse to evaluate aboveground and belowground growth, and biomass allocation in seedlings of Acacia farnesiana and Celtis laevigata in infertile and fertile soils. Acacia farnesiana is a N-fixing, heliophyte, which is a dominant in mesic, early successional communities in some areas of the southern United States and northern Mexico. Celtis laevigata is a sciophyte, which assumes dominance as many of these communities mature. Length of stem, length of root, number of leaves, and basal diameter of seedlings of A. farnesiana were significantly greater than those of C. laevigata, regardless of nutrient level. Both species showed increased length of stem, length of root, and number of leaves when nutrients were added; however, the amount of increase in length of root depended on species. Shoot, root, and total dry mass of seedlings of A. farnesiana was significantly greater than in C. laevigata. Addition of nutrients increased dry masses of both species. Additions of nutrients had no effect on root:shoot allocation of either species; however, root:shoot ratios were greater in C. laevigata than for A. farnesiana. Data suggest that for the late-successional species C. laevigata to establish in the successional sequence, some factor other than nutrients, such as light levels, must inhibit the continued establishment of seedlings of A. farnesiana. /// El crecimiento y la asignacin de biomasa arriba y abajo del suelo en plntulas de Acacia farnesiana y Celtis laevigata en suelos frtiles e infrtiles fueron evaluados en condiciones de invernadero. A. farnesiana es una helifita y fijadora de N que es dominante en comunidades sucesionales tempranas de ambientes msicos en algunas reas del sur de los Estados Unidos y norte de Mxico. C. laevigata es una escifita dominante en las etapas maduras de algunas de esas comunidades. La longitud del tallo y de la raz, el nmero de hojas y el dimetro basal de las plntulas fueron significativamente mayores en A. farnesiana que en C. laevigata independientemente del nivel de fertilidad de los suelos. La longitud del tallo y de la raz y el nmero de hojas aumentaron cuando se fertilizaron ambas especies, pero el incremento en la longitud de la raz dependi de la especie. La biomasa seca total y la de tallos y races fue mayor en A. farnesiana que en C. laevigata. La adicin de nutrientes increment la biomasa seca en ambas especies. La adicin de nutrientes no tuvo efecto en la asignacin races:tallos en ambas especies, sin embargo, el cociente raiz:tallo fue mayor en C. laevigata que en A. farnesiana. Los resultados sugieren que para que C. laevigata se establezca, algn factor distinto a los nutrientes, tal como nivel de luz, debe inhibir el continuo establecimiento de plntulas de A. farnesiana.
20424891|We reviewed the conservation status of rare and endangered species of mussels in southeastern Oklahoma by completing surveys of 10 long-term monitoring sites on the Kiamichi River and five sites in the Little River. We found extant populations of the Ouachita rock pocketbook, Arkansia wheeleri, scaleshell, Leptodea leptodon, winged mapleleaf, Quadrula fragosa, and rabbitsfoot, Quadrula cylindrica cylindrica. This is the first reported documentation of Q. fragosa in the Little River. When our data are compared to historic records, populations, particularly of A. wheeleri and Q. cylindrica, appear to be declining. /// Revisamos el estado de conservacin de las especies raras de mejillones y en peligro de extincin en 10 sitios de muestreo a largo plazo en el ro Kiamichi y 5 sitios en el ro Little en el sureste de Oklahoma. Encontramos poblaciones existentes de Arkansia wheeleri, Leptodea leptodon, Quadrula fragosa y Quadrula cylindrica cylindrica. Reportamos por primera vez a Q. fragosa en el ro Little. Cuando los resultados son comparados con registros histricos, las poblaciones, particularmente de A. wheeleri y Q. cylindrica, parecen estar disminuyendo.
20424892|We examined ecological interactions between two ecosystem engineers, Gunnison's prairie dogs (Cynomys gunnisoni) and Botta's pocket gophers (Thomomys bottae), across a 67,000-km2 range of northern Arizona. We examined densities of burrows, composition of vegetation, and characteristics of soil associated with locations where each species occurred alone and compared them to where they were both present. Density of T. bottae was significantly lower in the presence of C. gunnisoni than where occurring alone, while density of C. gunnisoni more than doubled at locations where they occurred with T. bottae compared to where they were alone. Vegetational communities associated with locations where C. gunnisoni occurred alone were significantly different from locations where T. bottae occurred alone and where both species were present. We also detected that burrows of T. bottae and C. gunnisoni occurred in soils that did not differ significantly in depth, texture, or rock content, but characteristics of soil played an influential role in patterns observed in vegetational communities. /// Examinamos las interacciones ecolgicas entre dos herbvoros clave: Los perros de la pradera de Gunnison (Cynomys gunnisoni) y los topos (Thomomys bottae) a travs de 67,000 km2 en la zona norte de Arizona. Examinamos las densidades de madrigueras, la composicin de vegetacin, y las caractersticas del suelo asociadas con las localidades donde cada especie ocurri sola y se los compar donde ambas estuvieron presentes. La densidad de T. bottae fue significativamente ms baja en presencia de C. gunnisoni en comparacin a donde existi sola, mientras que la densidad de C. gunnisoni fue ms del doble en los lugares donde ocurri con T. bottae en comparacin a donde existi sola. Las comunidades de la vegetacin asociadas con los lugares donde C. gunnisoni ocurri sola fueron significativamente diferentes de los lugares donde T. bottae ocurri sola, y donde ambas especies estuvieron presentes. Tambin encontramos que las madrigueras de T. bottae y C. gunnisoni ocurrieron en suelos que no diferan significativamente en profundidad, textura, ni en contenido de rocas, pero las caractersticas del suelo pueden ser importantes en los patrones observados en las comunidades de vegetacin.
20424893|The presence of species disjunct from more northern distributions and quantitative aspects of species associations were studied on the Sierra La Asamblea, an isolated range reaching 1,661 m elevation at about 29.3N on the Baja California Peninsula. The flora above 800 m is composed of 299 species of tracheophytes, notably including Pinus monophylla and Adenostoma fasciculatum. Eighty-seven species are considered disjunct from more northern distributions, of which only 19 have affinity limited to the California Floristic Province. Data from 10 transects and adjacent flora show few species that are either broadly distributed or locally common, and both composition and structure differ from studies at lower elevations. Disjuncts were most common in association with P. monophylla. Range extensions (38) are reported, including three new records for the peninsula, and a floristic list is provided. /// Se estudiaron la presencia de especies de distribucin nortea con carcter disyunto y aspectos cuantitativos de asociaciones de especies en la Sierra La Asamblea, una sierra aislada con una elevacin de 1,661 m localizada aproximadamente a los 29.3N en la pennsula de Baja California. La flora por encima de los 800 m est compuesta de 299 especies de traquefitas, notablemente, Pinus monophylla y Adenostoma fasciculatum. Ochenta y siete especies presentan una distribucin disyunta con poblaciones ms norteas, de las cuales 19 tienen afinidad solamente con la Provincia Florstica Californiana. Datos de 10 transectos y la flora asociada revelan que pocas especies estn ampliamente distribuidas o son comunes localmente, y tanto la composicin como la estructura de la vegetacin contrastan con estudios a menor altitud. Las especies diyuntas fueron ms comunes en asociacin con P. monophylla. Se reportan extensiones de distribucin para 38 especies, incluyendo tres nuevos registros para la pennsula, y se proporciona un listado florstico.
20424894|We surveyed four spring sites of the Edwards Aquifer to determine current distribution and abundance of spring and cave-adapted invertebrates, including three that are federally listed as endangered. We found 18 species from 12 families of endangered and stygobiontic fauna, similar to other surveys completed 10 years prior, and recorded new localities for Tethysbaena texana, Cirolanides texensis, Lirceolus hardeni, Lirceolus smithii, Stygobromus longipes, Stygobromus flagellatus, and Artesia subterranea. We also report discovery of new species of Bogidiellidae (near Parabogidiella), Ingolfiella, and Almuerzothyas. /// Examinamos cuatro sitios de nacimento de aguas del acufero Edwards para determinar las distribuciones y abundancias de invertebrados adaptados a manantiales y cuevas, incluyendo 3 especies que estn en peligro de extincin a nivel federal. Encontramos 18 especies de 12 familias de fauna estigobinticas parecidas a muestreos realizados hace 10 aos. Reportamos nuevas localidades para Tethysbaena texana, Cirolanides texensis, Lirceolus hardeni, Lirceolus smithii, Stygobromus longipes, Stygobromus flagellatus y Artesia subterranea. Tambien reportamos el descubrimento de nuevas especias de Bogidiellidae (similar a Parabogidiella), Ingofiella y Almuerzothyas.
20424895|A survey of Amistad National Recreation Area in Val Verde Co., Texas, was conducted using field sampling, literature records, and museum vouchers to compile a current list of the mammal fauna. Field work was conducted May 2003--July 2004. Small mammals were trapped along 21 transects for a total of 3,150 trap nights and medium-sized mammals were trapped on nine transects for 135 trap nights. Additional records were obtained through observations, collecting in specific habitats (rocky bluffs, grassy roadsides, etc.), salvaging road kills, and recording visual evidence of presence. Overall, 50 species of terrestrial mammals were identified as probably occurring in Amistad National Recreation Area, including seven non-native species. Previous studies documented 38, 47, and 46 species. With the exception of the northern pygmy mouse (Baiomys taylori), none of the native mammals captured during this study appear to be expanding their range. /// Un muestreo de Amistad National Recreation Area (NRA) en el condado de Val Verde, Texas, fue hecho utilizando muestreo de campo, registros publicados y documentos del museos para compilar una lista actualizada de la fauna mamfera. Se efectu trabajo del campo desde mayo 2003 a julio 2004. Se atraparon mamferos pequeos a lo largo de 21 transectos, produciendo un total de 3,150 noches de trampeo, y mamferos de tamao mediano fueron atrapados en nueve transectos, produciendo 135 noches de trampeo. Evidencia adicional fue obtenida a travs de observaciones, colectando en hbitats especficos (riscos pedregosos, bordes de la carretera cubiertos de hierba, etc.), recobrando animales muertos a orillas de las carreteras y registrando evidencia visual de presencia. En conjunto, 50 especies de mamferos terrestres fueron identificadas como probables habitantes en Amistad NRA, incluyendo a siete especies no nativas. Estudios previos documentaron 38, 47 y 46 especies. Con la excepcin del ratn pigmeo norteo (Baiomys taylori), ninguno de los mamferos nativos capturados en el transcurso de este estudio parecen estar expandiendo su distribucin.
20424896|Worthen's sparrow (Spizella wortheni) is probably one of the least known sparrows of North America. Its breeding range is uncertain, as there are questionable records from several localities in Mexico and from the type locality near Silver City, New Mexico, in the United States. Currently, the only unquestionable records are from Coahuila and Nuevo Len. Here we describe new localities for this species from the state of Nuevo Len and confirm already known localities from Coahuila. These new records were gathered during a bird-monitoring program within colonies of the Mexican prairie dog (Cynomys mexicanus) in northeastern Mexico. We surveyed seven grassland areas and recorded Worthen's sparrow at four of them; Los Angeles, La Perforadora, La Soledad, and El Guerrero. Our records add more detail to the known distribution of this species and our behavioral observations suggest they breed in all four localities. /// El gorrin de Worthen (Spizella wortheni) es quiz una de las especies de gorrin menos conocida de Amrica del Norte, ms am su distribucin es incierta, ya que existen registros cuestionables en diferentes localidades en Mxico y la localidad tipo en Silver City, Nuevo Mxico, USA. Actualmente los registros confirmados provienen slo de los estados de Coahuila y Nuevo Len. Nuestros registros confirman esta especie en el estado de Coahuila y se presentan nuevas localidades para el estado de Nuevo Len. Los registros nuevos se obtuvieron durante un programa de monitoreo de aves en sitios habitados por el perrito llanero mexicano (Cynomys mexicanus) en el noreste de Mxico. Se monitorearon 7 reas de pastizales y se obtuvieron registros del gorrin de Worthen en cuatro de ellas: Los Angeles, La Perforadora, La Soledad y El Guerrero. Nuestros registros aaden ms detalle a la distribucin conocida del gorrin de Worthen y nuestras observaciones de comportamiento sugieren que se reproduce en las 4 localidades.
20424897|Restoration of riparian areas is an important step toward improving water flow and water quality of the Ro Conchos in northern Mexico. To provide background data for restoration decisions we characterized the ecological integrity of a 40-km-long riparian corridor along the middle Rio Conchos. The characterization consisted of determining dominant species of trees and shrubs, structure, and quality of riparian habitat using standard transect sampling and a riparian habitat-quality index (QBR index) along the corridor. Our data indicate that willow (Salix nigra) and mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa) are the dominant trees in the riparian zone, and that although invasive saltcedar (Tamarix ramosissima) populate nearby agricultural lands and irrigation canals, they have not yet invaded the riparian areas of the middle Ro Conchos. Habitat degradation is occurring; the major sources of negative impacts to riparian habitat are, in order, overgrazing, sewage input into the river, and gravel extraction from the river channel. /// La restauracin de reas ribereas es un paso importante para el mejoramiento del gasto y calidad del agua del ro Conchos, en el norte de Mxico. Para obtener datos base para planes de restauracin, caracterizamos la integridad ecolgica de un segmento de 40 km de zona riberea del medio ro Conchos. Esta caracterizacin consisti en la identificacin de especies dominantes de rboles y arbustos, estructura, y calidad de hbitat utilizando mtodos estndares de transectos as como un ndice de calidad de hbitat ribereo (QBR) a lo largo del ro. Los resultados indican que los rboles dominantes son sauz (Salix nigra) y mesquite (Prosopis grandulosa), y que aunque el rbol invasor cedro de sal (Tamarix ramosissima) est presente a lo largo de canales de irrigacin y reas de cultivo cercanas, no ha invadido todava el rea riberea del medio ro Conchos. La zona riberea presenta signos de degradacin de hbitat especialmente por sobrepastoreo, descarga de aguas negras, y extraccin de grava del lecho del ro, en orden de mayor a menor impacto.
20424898|This paper reports shrews (Soricidae, Soricomorpha) in Colima, Mexico, namely, Cryptotis parva, Sorex saussurei and the threatened Megasorex gigas. They were recorded in cloud, pine, and pineoak forests. Voucher specimens were catalogued in the Coleccin Nacional de Mamferos (CNMA), Instituto de Biologa de la Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mxico (UNAM), in Mexico City. This research contributes to the knowledge of the biodiversity of western Mexico, provides the first museum specimens of these taxa in the CNMA and confirms the presence of taxa of conservation concern. /// Este estudio registra la presencia de musaraas (Soricidae, Soricomorpha) en el estado de Colima, Mxico, y son: Cryptotis parva, Sorex saussurei y Megasorex gigas, sta ltima amenazada de extincin. Estas especies se encontraron en bosques de pino, de pino-encino y mesfilo de montaa. Los ejemplares de referencia se depositaron en la Coleccin Nacional de Mamferos (CNMA), Instituto de Biologa de la Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mxico (UNAM), en la Ciudad de Mxico. Esta investigacin contribuye al conocimiento de la biodiversidad del occidente de Mxico, genera los primeros ejemplares de museo de los taxa en cuestin para la CNMA y confirma la presencia de taxa de inters en conservacin.
20424899|Intense predation on larval and juvenile fishes by introduced piscivores can be detrimental to recruitment of threatened and endangered native fishes. Introduced largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) in the San Juan River, New Mexico, Colorado, and Utah, rarely are collected as adults; however, juveniles (&lt;200 mm total length) often occur in the same habitats as young-of-the-year native fishes. To evaluate the prevalence of native fishes in the diet of juvenile largemouth bass, stomach samples from juveniles were collected from the San Juan River in New Mexico during July and August 2005, when young-of-the-year native and nonnative fishes were present. Stomach contents of largemouth bass were identified as native catostomids, native cyprinids, or nonnative cyprinids based on pharyngeal teeth. Although nonnative fishes comprised &gt;80% of the potential prey base, significantly more native fishes were identified in stomachs than nonnative fishes. The disproportional abundance of native fishes in the diet of juvenile largemouth bass suggests greater susceptibility of young-of-the-year natives to predation by largemouth bass in the San Juan River. /// La depredacin intensa sobre peces en estadio larval y juvenil por piscvoros introducidos puede ser perjudicial para el reclutamiento de las especies nativas amenazadas o en peligro de extincin. El pez introducido lobina negra (Micropterus salmoides) en el ro San Juan de los estados de Nuevo Mxico, Colorado y Utah es raramente recolectado como adulto; sin embargo, los juveniles (&lt;200 mm TL) a menudo viven en los mismos hbitats de otros peces nativos jvenes-del-ao. Para evaluar la prevalencia de los peces nativos en la dieta de los juveniles de la lobina negra se colectaron muestras del contenido estomacal de juveniles del ro San Juan en Nuevo Mxico durante los meses de julio y agosto del 2005, cuando los jvenes-del-ao de peces nativos y no nativos estuvieron presentes. Basado en la dentadura faringueal, el contenido estomacal del pez lobina negra fue identificado como catostmido nativo, ciprnido nativo y ciprnido no nativo. Aunque los peces no nativos comprendieron &gt;80% de las presas potenciales, significativamente ms peces nativos fueron identificados en los estmagos que peces no nativos. La abundancia desproporcionada de los peces nativos en la dieta de los juveniles de la lobina negra sugiere ms susceptibilidad de los peces nativos jvenes-del-ao a la depredacin de la lobina negra en el ro San Juan.
20424900|We report on 14 western diamond-backed rattlesnakes (Crotalus atrox) that were located at or near communal-type dens in late winter and observed to harvest and consume water from rain, sleet, and snow. Observations occurred on 11 and 19 March 2006, and were conducted at two sites in the Sonoran Desert of southern Arizona. On both days, weather conditions were inclement, with near-freezing (5C) ambient air temperatures, rain mixed with sleet or snow, gusty winds, and 100% cloud cover. Individuals involved in harvesting water from their bodies assumed stereotypic postures that were similar to those reported in other species of rattlesnakes. We suggest that protracted extreme drought (e.g., 175 days without precipitation from mid-September to early March) coincident with record-high temperatures during this period contributed to dehydration in the populations of C. atrox studied. Consequently, despite harsh weather, benefits of harvesting water from rain, sleet, or snow possibly overrode risks of predation and other factors. /// Se reportan 14 vboras cascabel de diamante (Crotalus atrox) localizadas entre o cerca de madrigueras comunales en la ltima etapa del invierno, donde fueron observadas colectando y consumiendo lluvia, aguanieve y nieve. Las observaciones ocurrieron el 11 y 19 de marzo del 2006, y fueron conducidas en dos sitios en el desierto de Sonora del sur de Arizona. En las dos fechas las condiciones del tiempo fueron tormentosas, con temperaturas del aire cercanas al punto de congelacin (5C), lluvia mezclada con aguanieve o nieve, vientos fuertes, con cobertura de nubes al 100%. Los individuos observados colectando y consumiendo agua de sus cuerpos asumieron posturas estereotipadas similares a las que se han reportado en otras especies de cascabeles. Se sugiere que una sequa extrema y prolongada (o sea 175 das sin precipitacin desde la mitad de septiembre hasta principios de marzo) en conjunto con temperaturas ms altas que nunca, contribuyeron a la deshidratacin en las poblaciones estudiadas de C. atrox. Consecuentemente, a pesar del clima turbulento, el beneficio de colectar agua de lluvia, aguanieve o nieve posiblemente contrarrest los riesgos de la depredacin y otros factores.
20424901|Western ribbon snakes (Thamnophis proximus) were collected at the Old Sabine Bottom Wildlife Management Area, Smith Co., Texas. Distended individuals were palpated to recover recently ingested prey, which resulted in discovery of five new prey items. This report also provides updated nomenclature of previously reported prey items. After comparing previously reported localities of prey items with current range descriptions and taxonomy, it was concluded that two anurans should be removed as documented prey items of T. proximus. /// La culebra Thamnophis proximus fue colectada en el rea protegida de vida salvaje Old Sabine Bottom, condado de Smith, Texas. Individuos con estmago lleno fueron palpados, resultando en la descripcin de cinco nuevas especies de presas que no haban sido registradas previamente en la dieta de T. proximans. Adicionalmente, este reporte tambin provee nomenclatura actualizada de las presas anteriormente descritas en su dieta. Al comparar localidades de presas previamente reportadas con descripciones de rangos conocidos, se concluye que dos especies de ranas deben ser removidas como presa documentada de T. proximus.
20424902|Swift foxes (Vulpes velox) and Arctic foxes (Alopex lagopus) often use barking to communicate information to mates, members of social groups, and other conspecifics. Barking by the closely related kit fox (V. macrotis), however, remains largely unobserved and undocumented. We observed barking among a population of radiocollared San Joaquin kit foxes (V. m. mutica) inhabiting Bakersfield, Kern Co., California, during August 2002--March 2003. We observed 150 barks, including 56 from two adult (1 year old) males, 83 from an adult female, and 11 from two juveniles (&lt;1 year old). Of these, we recorded nine barks, each of which consisted of a series of short, discrete elements repeated in rapid sequence; similar in structure and sound to barking sequences by swift and Arctic foxes. Barking occurred rarely and concentrated mostly around the mating period in mid-December. Our observations suggest that barking functions to contact or attract mates or potential mates and serves little territorial importance. /// Tanto el zorro veloz (Vulpes velox) como el zorro rtico (Alopex lagopus) a menudo utilizan ladridos para comunicarse con su pareja, con otros miembros del grupo social, y con otros conespecficos. Sin embargo, el ladrido de la zorra nortea (V. macrotis), que esta emparentada con las otras dos especies, no ha sido observado a menudo y no est documentado. Observamos ladridos de una poblacin de zorra nortea de la subespecie San Joaqun (V. m. mutica) cuyos miembros estaban dotados con radio collares. Estas observaciones se llevaron a cabo en Bakersfield, condado de Kern, California, desde agosto del 2002 hasta marzo del 2003. Observamos 150 ladridos de zorros, incluyendo 56 de dos machos adultos (1 ao), 83 de una hembra adulta, y 11 de dos juveniles (&lt;1 ao). De stos, registramos 9 ladridos, cada uno compuesto por una serie de elementos cortos y discretos, repetidos en secuencias rpidas -- de estructura y sonido similares a las secuencias de ladridos del zorro del rtico y del veloz. El uso de estos ladridos fue escaso y se concentr principalmente durante la poca de reproduccin a mediados de diciembre. Nuestras observaciones sugieren que la funcin principal de los ladridos es contactar o atraer a la pareja o a una pareja potencial, y que tendra poca importancia en cuanto a la territorialidad.
20424903|We collected 409 Pimephales vigilax (bullhead minnow) and 32 Percina macrolepida (bigscale logperch) from Elephant Butte Reservoir, Sierra Co., New Mexico, during a small-bodied fish survey in August and December 2005, and January and August 2006. The bullhead minnow is considered nonnative in the Rio Grande in New Mexico, but has been collected downstream of Elephant Butte Reservoir. Collections of this species document its establishment within Elephant Butte Reservoir. The bigscale logperch had not been collected previously from the Rio Grande in New Mexico and these collections represent a range extension for this species. Both species are now established in Elephant Butte Reservoir and these unnatural range extensions are related to human activities, but the exact cause remains unknown. /// Recogimos 409 Pimephales vigilax (bullhead minnow) y 32 Percina macrolepida (bigscale logperch) del Elephant Butte Reservoir, condado de Sierra, Nuevo Mxico, durante un muestreo de peces pequeos en agosto y diciembre de 2005 y enero y agosto de 2006. Pimephales vigilax no se considera nativo en el ro Grande en Nuevo Mxico, pero se ha recogido ro abajo del Elephant Butte Reservoir. Colecciones de esta especie documentan su establecimiento en el Elephant Butte Reservoir. Percina macrolepida no haba sido recogido previamente del ro Grande en Nuevo Mxico y estas colecciones representan una extensin de su distribucin geogrfica. Ambas especies ahora se establecen en el Elephant Butte Reservoir y estas extensiones artificiales de sus distribuciones son relacionadas con las actividades humanas, pero la causa exacta se queda desconocida.
20424904|Statistical analysis of a series of measurements from great horned owls (Bubo virginianus) revealed no difference in wing chord and tail length among three groups studied (B. v. pallescens, B. v. virginianus, or intermediate) in Texas. /// Anlisis estadstico de una serie de mediciones del bho cornudo (Bubo virginianus) no mostr ningunas diferencias con respecto a la longitud de la cuerda alar ni de la cola entre tres grupos estudiados en Texas (B. v. pallescens, B. v. virginianus o intermedios).
20424908|Prior research has demonstrated that fire can be an important structuring force for plant communities in prairies and grasslands. However, investigations of land-management techniques, such as prescribed fire, often overlook responses of local fauna, particularly the arthropods. In this study, we examined a previously unappreciated, although potentially important, component of fire ecology by asking, does the timing of prescribed burns alter community structure of arthropods? At a site in the Texas Hill Country, we used sweep-net sampling to collected arthropods from experimental plots that had been treated with a summer-burn or winter-burn regime. Summer-burn plots supported &gt;170% more individual arthropods than winter burns. Although overall diversity of arthropods did not significantly differ between treatments, there were significantly more carnivorous arthropods and marginally more herbivorous arthropods after fire in summer relative to fire in winter. Effects of timing were particularly strong for Cicadellidae (leaf hoppers) and Tetragnathidae (long-jawed spiders). Our results demonstrate that timing of prescribed fire can substantially alter composition of resident communities of arthropods. Furthermore, these data highlight the importance of examining composition of the community, in addition to diversity indices, when assessing response of arthropods to land-management techniques. /// Investigaciones previas han mostrado que el fuego puede ser una fuerza importante en la estructuracin de comunidades vegetales en praderas y pastizales. Sin embargo, las investigaciones acerca de las tcnicas de manejo del terreno, tales como quemas prescritas, pasan por alto la respuesta de la fauna local, particularmente la de los artrpodos. En este trabajo, examinamos un previamente poco apreciado, aunque potencialmente importante, componente de la ecologa del fuego, preguntando si la temporada de quemas prescritas altera la estructura de la comunidad de los artrpodos. En un sitio en Texas Hill Country, usamos redes de golpeo para colectar los artrpodos de las parcelas experimentales previamente tratadas con quemas invernales y quemas veraniegas. Las parcelas con quemas veraniegas mantuvieron &gt;170% ms individuos que las parcelas de quemas invernales. Aunque la diversidad total de artrpodos no difiri significativamente entre tratamientos, hubo significativamente ms artrpodos carnvoros y, marginalmente, ms artrpodos herbvoros en el tratamiento de quemas veraniegas relativas a las invernales. El efecto de la temporada de quema fue particularmente marcado para los Cicadlidos (chicharritas) y Tetragntidos (araas obitelas de grandes quelceros). Nuestros resultados muestran que la temporada de las quemas prescritas puede alterar substancialmente la composicin de las comunidades residentes de atrpodos. As mismo, estos resultados destacan la importancia de examinar la composicin de la comunidad, y no slo los ndices de diversidad, al evaluar la respuesta de los artrpodos a las tcnicas de manejo del terreno.
20424909|Understanding consequences of changes in climate and fire regimes for succession in plant communities is critical for conservation planning at broad spatial and temporal scales. We selected two sites that burned in high-severity fire decades ago and studied succession in the woody plant community and its variations across two environmental gradients; elevation and distance from a lower-severity/unburned edge. By overlaying an ordination of data for woody species on the modeled environmental gradient most closely related to variation in communities, we analyzed the interaction of life-history traits of species and landscape heterogeneity at each study site. Species that resprout from surviving roots were widespread across the distance gradient 28 years after the La Mesa fire in New Mexico. Species that reproduce from off-site seed, including Pinus ponderosa, were more prevalent where resprouters (e.g., Quercus) were less important in defining communities. At Saddle Mountain, Arizona, 45 years post-fire, we observed neighborhood interactions across the elevation gradient, for example, where shade-tolerant conifers (e.g., Abies concolor) occurred in understories of Populus tremuloides. At both sites, greater cover of woody plants that reproduce from off-site seed at shorter distances from a lower-severity/unburned edge suggested migration of these species following the model of wave-form succession. In contrast to studies that emphasize undesirable effects when forest transitions to openings and alternative habitats, our research elucidates the need for further consideration of both young forest communities and the persistent species and communities described as landscape scars in conservation plans for forest systems of the southwestern United States. /// Entender el papel que juegan los cambios de clima y de rgimen de incendios en la sucesin de comunidades de plantas es crucial para planear la conservacin a grandes escalas temporales y espaciales. Seleccionamos dos sitios que sufrieron severos incendios hace dcadas y estudiamos los patrones de sucesin de sus comunidades de plantas leosas y sus variantes a lo largo de dos gradientes ambientales: elevacin y distancia al borde de un parche con baja incidencia de incendios o no quemado. Al superponer los resultados de la ordenacin de los datos de especies leosas sobre el gradiente ambiental del modelo ms relacionado con la variacin en las comunidades, analizamos la interaccin de las caractersticas de la historia de vida de las especies con la heterogeneidad del paisaje en cada sitio de estudio. Veintiocho aos despus del incendio de La Mesa en Nuevo Mxico, las especies que rebrotan de races supervivientes se distribuyeron a lo largo de todo el gradiente de distancia. Las especies que se reproducen por semillas procedentes de sitios exgenos, incluyendo Pinus ponderosa, fueron ms prevalecientes all donde las que rebrotan (por ejemplo, Quercus) tendieron a ser menos decisivas en la definicin de las comunidades. En Saddle Mountain, Arizona, 45 aos despus del incendio, observamos interacciones entre vecinos a lo largo del gradiente de elevacin. Por ejemplo, conferas tolerantes a la sombra (como Abies concolor) se hallaron en el sotobosque de Populus tremuloides. En ambos sitios, la mayor cobertura de plantas leosas reproducidas por semillas exgenas a poca distancia de bordes con parches con baja incidencia de incendios o no quemados, sugiere que la migracin de dichas especies siguiera el modelo de sucesin "forma de ola." Al contrario de estudios que enfatizan los efectos no deseados de la transicin de bosque a reas abiertas y hbitats alternativos, nuestra investigacin establece la necesidad de considerar conjuntamente las comunidades de bosque temprano al igual que las especies y comunidades persistentes descritas como cicatrices del paisaje en los planes de conservacin de los sistemas de bosques del sudoeste de los Estados Unidos.
20424910|We observed activity and behavior of Trimerotropis pallidipennis in the field and constructed time-activity budgets during June-July 2003. Grasshoppers began to walk once site temperatures (shaded air temperature 1 cm above soil surface) reached 18.6C, foraging began once temperatures reached 24.2-31.7C, and courtship began once temperatures reached 30.3-36.4C. Mating and oviposition occurred when temperatures reached 30-40C. Quiescence occurred most often at the lowest and highest site temperature categories (20-25, 25-30, and 45-50C), and the highest frequency of foraging occurred most often at temperatures of 35-40C. We observed no clear diurnal patterns for walking in grasshoppers, and found no significant difference between frequency of activities in morning and evening, within the same temperature ranges. Males rested, courted, and groomed significantly more frequently than females, and females foraged significantly more than males. Activity patterns, especially quiescence and foraging, were influenced much more by environmental temperature than by time of day. /// Observamos la actividad y el comportamiento de Trimerotropis pallidipennis en el campo durante junio y julio del 2003. Utilizamos estos datos para hacer presupuestos de tiempo-actividades. Los saltamontes empezaron a caminar cuando la temperatura del sitio alcanz 18.6C (la temperatura del aire en la sombra 1 cm sobre el suelo), empezaron a forrajear cuando la temperatura alcanz entre los 24.2 y 31.7C y empezaron a cortejar cuando la temperatura alcanz entre los 30.3 y 36.4C. El apareamiento y la ovoposicin ocurrieron cuando la temperatura alcanz entre los 30 y 40C. El descanso ocurri ms en la primera y ltima categora de temperaturas (20-25C, 25-30C y 45-50C) y el forrajeo ocurri ms entre 35 a 40C. No observamos un patrn diurno claro para el caminar de los saltamontes, y no encontramos diferencias significativas entre la frecuencia de las actividades en la maana y la tarde, dentro de la misma categora de temperaturas. Los machos descansaron, cortejaron, y se acicalaron significativamente ms que las hembras, y las hembras forrajearon significativamente ms que los machos. Los patrones de actividad, especialmente las actividades de descanso y forrajeo, fueron influidos mucho ms por la temperatura que por la hora del da.
20424911|Travel by pollen from Zizania texana (Texas wild rice) was studied in outdoor cement raceways at the San Marcos National Fish Hatchery and Technology Center, San Marcos, Texas. We examined effects of panicle density and distance from a pollen source on abundance of pollen. There were significantly more pollen grains on traps when panicle number was &gt;40 than there were with fewer panicles. More pollen was on traps within 0.75 m of panicles releasing pollen. We examined the timing of release of pollen by Z. texana by collecting pollen at 6-h intervals for four consecutive 24-h periods. Pollen also was collected at 1-h intervals for four 24-h periods. More pollen was trapped 2400-0600 h (nighttime), compared with 0600-2400 h (daytime); peak hourly release of pollen was 0200-0500 h. /// Se estudi la propagacin de polen del arroz silvestre (Zizania texana) en conductos exteriores hechos de cemento en el San Marcos National Fish Hatchery and Technology Center, San Marcos, Texas, USA. Examinamos los efectos de la densidad de panojas y la distancia de una fuente de polen en la abundancia de polen. Hubo considerablemente ms granos de polen en trampas cuando el nmero de panojas era &gt;40 que cuando hubo menos panojas. Se hall ms polen en trampas alrededor de 0.75 m de panojas liberando polen. Examinamos el patrn de liberacin de polen de Z. texana al recolectar polen a intervalos de seis horas por cuatro perodos consecutivos de 24 horas. Adems, se recolect polen a intervalos de una hora por cuatro perodos de 24 horas. Se atrap ms polen entre las 2400 hrs a 0600 hrs (nocturno), comparado con 0600 hrs a 2400 hrs (diurno); las horas de emisin de polen ms altas fueron entre las 0200 hrs y 0500 hrs.
20424912|Timing of sexual activity by males and females is a critical aspect of mating systems. We analyzed whether reproduction in western Mexican whiptail lizards, Aspidoscelis costata, on a tropical Pacific island in Mexico is seasonal or continuous, and whether it is linked to certain meteorological factors. Macroscopic and microscopic analyses of monthly samples of gonads showed that reproductive cycles of males and females were seasonal (February-September) and significantly associated with day length. Necropsies did not evidence an overlap between successive reproductive events in females. However, our observations of free-ranging females showed that 35% of them were accompanied by males &gt;1 time/season, with intervals between accompaniments of 14-31 days. In addition, observations of captive females and males revealed that accompaniment lasted 2-5 days, seemingly coincided with female receptivity and was broken 8-12 days before egg-laying. Repeated accompaniment by males suggests females have successive reproductive events within a season. /// El patrn temporal de actividad sexual de machos y hembras es un aspecto crucial de los sistemas de apareamiento. Analizamos si la reproduccin de la lagartija rayada, Aspidoscelis costata, de una isla tropical del Pacfico mexicano es estacional o continua y si est relacionada con algunos factores meteorolgicos. Anlisis macro y microscpicos de las gnadas de muestras mensuales de especmenes mostraron que los ciclos reproductivos de machos y hembras son estacionales (febrero a septiembre) y que estn asociados significativamente a la duracin del da. Las necropsias no evidenciaron solapamiento entre eventos reproductores sucesivos en las hembras. Sin embargo, nuestras observaciones de hembras libres mostraron que por lo menos 35% de stas estuvieron acompaadas por machos &gt;1 vez en la misma temporada, con intervalos de 14 a 31 das entre acompaamientos. Adems, nuestras observaciones de hembras en cautiverio revelaron que el acompaamiento duraba de 2 a 5 das, aparentemente coincida con la receptividad de las hembras, y se disolva de 8 a 12 das antes de la oviposicin. As, los acompaamientos repetidos sugieren que las hembras tienen varios eventos reproductores sucesivos en una temporada.
20424913|We report nesting success for a population of ground-nesting black-bellied whistling ducks (Dendrocygna autumnalis) for the summers of 2003 and 2004 at a hypersaline lake in southern Texas, and a population decline of 71% between 2002 and 2003. We attribute the population decline to a change in ecology of the lake, specifically, an increase in salinity from cessation of inflow of fresh water in 2000. The increased salinity led to high mortality in ducklings and brood failure due to sodium toxicity. We compared nest success, nest habitat, and nest predation to other reported populations of black-bellied whistling ducks in the northern area of their range. /// Se reportan el xito de anidacin de una poblacin del pato pijije ala blanca (Dendrocygna autumnalis) los veranos de 2003 y 2004 en un lago hipersalino en el sur de Texas, y una disminucin de la poblacin de 71% entre 2002 y 2003. Se atribuye la causa de la declinacin poblacional a un cambio ecolgico del lago, especficamente a un incremento de la salinidad por el cese de ingreso de agua dulce en el 2000. La alta salinidad ocasion alta mortandad de las cras y fracaso de anidacin debidos a la toxicidad del sodio. Se compararon el xito de anidacin, el hbitat del nido y su depredacin con otros reportes referentes de poblaciones ms norteas del pato pijije ala blanca.
20424914|Males of the tarantula hawk wasp Hemipepsis ustulata defend individual trees and shrubs on mountaintops in central Arizona where they wait for arrival of sexually receptive females. Each spring, a new generation of males comes to prominent hilltops to compete for mating territories. In 4 of 5 years during 1997-2007, in which the same Arizonan peaktop was censused regularly, behavior of males was similar with respect to such things as total number of plants occupied by territorial males, average number of days in which site-faithful males returned to their territories, and mean maximum days of residency at those select sites that attracted at least one male for a period of 2 weeks. Territories that regularly attracted males in one year did so in other years as well; territories that were infrequently occupied in one year were defended only occasionally, if at all, in other years. Even in the year (1998) when an unusually large number of plants were selected as perch territories by male wasps, preferred sites (those most consistently occupied over the flight season) remained the same as in the more typical years. Perhaps because the position and relative conspicuousness of the slow-growing mature trees and shrubs on hilltops remains the same from year to year, perch preferences of males also remain constant over long periods. /// Los machos de las avispas Hemipepsis ustulata defienden rboles y arbustos individuales en las cimas de las montaas del centro de Arizona donde esperan la llegada de hembras sexualmente receptivas. Cada primavera una nueva generacin de machos llega a cimas prominentes para competir por territorios de apareamiento. De 1997 a 2007 se hicieron censos con regularidad en la cima de una montaa en Arizona, y en cuatro de los cinco aos el comportamiento de los machos fue similar en cuanto al nmero de plantas ocupadas por machos territoriales, el nmero promedio de das en que machos fieles a sus sitios volvieron a sus territorios, y la media en das de residencia mxima en esas localidades que atrajeron por lo menos a un macho por un perodo de 2 semanas. Los territorios que regularmente atrajeron la atencin de machos en un ao fueron populares en otros aos tambin; los territorios que fueron poco ocupados en un ao fueron defendidos slo ocasionalmente, si acaso, en otros aos. An en el ao (1998) cuando un nmero extraordinariamente alto de plantas fueron seleccionadas como territorios de perchas por avispas machos, los sitios preferidos (los ocupados ms consistentemente durante la temporada de vuelo) continuaban siendo los mismos que en aos ms tpicos. Tal vez porque la ubicacin y prominencia relativa de los rboles y arbustos adultos de lento crecimiento en las cimas permanecen constantes de ao en ao, las preferencias de perchas de los machos tambin se mantienen constantes durante largos plazos.
20424915|We used scalation, color pattern, and scanning electron microscopy of scale microdermatoglyphics to evaluate the hypothesis that an unusual rattlesnake specimen, from Wise Co., Texas, represents a natural hybrid between Crotalus atrox and C. horridus. The specimen demonstrates particular features of scalation and color pattern that are characteristic of either, but not both, parental species. With respect to microstructure of scales, the specimen exhibits a phenotype intermediate between the putative parental species. Based on this evidence, we tentatively consider the specimen to represent the first reported natural hybrid between C. atrox and C. horridus. /// Utilizamos escamacin, patrn de coloracin, y microscopia electrnica de microdermatoglifos de escamas para evaluar la hiptesis de que un espcimen inusual, colectado en el condado de Wise, Texas, representa un hbrido natural entre Crotalus atrox y C. horridus. Este espcimen muestra algunas caractersticas de escamacin y patrn de coloracin que son distintivas de una u otra, pero no de ambas, especies parentales. Con respecto a la microestructura de escamas, el espcimen exhibe un fenotipo intermedio entre las supuestas especies parentales. Basndonos en esta evidencia, tentativamente consideramos el espcimen como el primer registro de un hbrido natural entre C. atrox y C. horridus.
20424916|In this paper, we provide a description of six excavated burrow systems of Gunnison's prairie dog (Cynomys gunnisoni) in northern Arizona. These data plus other data from the literature on structure of the burrow system of Gunnison's prairie dogs, black-tailed prairie dogs (C. ludovicianus), white-tailed prairie dogs (C. leucurus), and Utah prairie dogs (C. parvidens) were used to compare species. Our excavations reveal that burrow systems of Gunnison's prairie dog vary from simple to complex structures, with &gt;50% of burrow systems having multiple aboveground entrances. There was no significant difference among species in total length of burrow. Burrow systems of black-tailed prairie dogs were significantly deeper than burrow systems of Gunnison's prairie dog. On average, burrow systems of Utah and Gunnison's prairie dogs had more aboveground entrances than black-tailed or white-tailed prairie dogs. Overall, the burrow systems for all species were similar in structure, complexity, and underground connectivity. /// Este trabajo proporciona una descripcin de seis madrigueras excavadas del perrito de la pradera Gunnison (Cynomys gunnisoni) en el norte de Arizona. Estos datos ms otros de la literatura sobre la estructura de las madrigueras de C. gunnison, de C. ludovicianus, de C. leucurus, y de C. parvidens se usaron para comparar las especies. Nuestras excavaciones revelan que las madrigueras de C. gunnisoni varan de estructuras simples a complejas. Ms del 50% de las madrigueras tuvieron mltiples entradas desde la superficie. No hubo ninguna diferencia significativa entre las especies en la longitud total de la madriguera. Las madrigueras de C. ludovicianus fueron significativamente ms profundas que las de C. gunnisoni. En promedio, las madrigueras de C. parvidens y C. gunnison tuvieron ms entradas desde la superficie que las de C. ludovicianus y C. leucurus. En general, las madrigueras de todas las especies fueron similares en estructura, complejidad y conectividad subterrnea.
20424917|Previous studies of oviposition sites of Corydalus cornutus have been restricted to large lotic systems. Attempts were made to correlate parameters of streams and oviposition sites in a small stream from early to late summer 2004 in Walker Co., Texas. Height of egg mass above surface of water, depth of water below egg mass, distance of oviposition to nearest shore, width of stream, distance to previous riffle, distance to next riffle, and velocity of water were measured to determine preference of sites for oviposition. At two study sites on a stream containing riffled areas, 94 egg masses were examined to determine their position. Significant correlations existed between width of stream and height of oviposition above water. /// Estudios anteriores de sitios de ovoposicin de Corydalus cornutus han sido limitados a grandes sistemas de aguas corrientes. Se realizaron intentos para correlacionar los parmetros de riachuelos y sitios de ovoposicin en un riachuelo pequeo desde principios a finales del verano del 2004 en el condado de Walker en Texas. La altura de la masa de huevos sobre la superficie del agua, la profundidad del agua abajo de la masa de huevos, la distancia de la ovoposicin a la orilla ms cercana, el ancho del riachuelo, la distancia a los prximos rpidos ro arriba, la distancia a los prximos rpidos ro abajo y la velocidad de flujo fueron medidos para determinar la preferencia de sitios para la ovoposicin. En dos sitios de estudio en un riachuelo con rpidos, examinamos 94 masas de huevos para determinar su posicin. Se hallaron correlaciones significativas entre el ancho del riachuelo y la altura de ovoposicin sobre el agua.
20424918|Mesopredators (e.g., raccoon Procyon lotor, Virginia opossum Didelphis virginiana, striped skunk Mephitis mephitis) have received considerable attention because of links to population declines in birds via increased nest predation, especially in landscapes fragmented by anthropogenic forces. Relationships of abundance of mesopredators to size of habitat patches have received less attention than relationships to other metrics of fragmentation, particularly edge characteristics. We tested the hypothesis that relative abundance of mesopredators (e.g., raccoons and Virginia opossums) was related negatively to size of forest patch. We delineated 15 patches of oak (Quercus) forest ranging from 0.2 to 55.3 ha within a grassland-woodland mosaic in the cross-timbers ecoregion of Oklahoma. Scent stations and live traps within these patches were used to index relative abundance of mesopredators in summers 2003 and 2004. Both indices of relative abundance were related weakly and negatively to area of forest patch. However, rate of capture and visitation to scent station were not correlated consistently throughout the study. Our results suggested that the two methods to index abundance provided separate information on functional and numerical responses to size of patch. Our evidence that mesopredators within the cross timbers were more likely to be in smaller patches of oak forest may have implications to success of avian nesting in these patches. /// Los mesodepredadores (por ejemplo, el mapache Procyon lotor, el tlacuache Didelphis virginiana y el zorrillo rayado Mephitis mephitis) han recibido considerable atencin debido a su vinculacin con la disminucin de poblaciones de aves a travs de un incremento en la depredacin de nidos, especialmente en paisajes fragmentados por fuerzas antropognicas. Las relaciones de la abundancia de mesodepredadores con los tamaos del parche de hbitat han recibido menos atencin que las relaciones con otras mediciones de fragmentacin, en particular con las caractersticas de borde. Probamos la hiptesis de que la abundancia relativa de mesodepredadores (por ejemplo, mapaches y tlacuaches) estuvo negativamente relacionada con el tamao de parche de bosque. Delineamos 15 parches de bosque de encino (Quercus) de 0.2 a 55.3 hectreas dentro de un mosaico de pastizales y bosques en la ecoregin de "cross-timbers" de Oklahoma. Se usaron estaciones odorferas y trampas de captura viva dentro de estos parches para establecer ndices de abundancia relativa en los veranos de 2003 y 2004. Ambos ndices de abundancia relativa se relacionaron dbil y negativamente con el rea de parche de bosque. Sin embargo, la tasa de captura y de visitas a las estaciones odorferas no fueron correlacionadas consistentemente durante el estudio. Nuestros resultados sugirieron que los dos mtodos para establecer un ndice de abundancia proporcionaron informacin diferente sobre respuestas funcionales y numricas al tamao de parche. Nuestra evidencia de que era ms probable encontrar a los mesodepredadores dentro de la ecoregion de "cross timbers" en parches ms pequeos de bosque de encino, podra tener implicaciones para el xito de anidacin de las aves en estos parches.
20424919|Los Terreros Creek, a reservoir-fragmented tributary in the upper Lerma River system of central Mexico, was sampled at four localities in wet (2001) and dry (2002) seasons to evaluate spatial and temporal patterns of fish assemblages, the conservation status of native fishes, and prevalence of exotic species. Two of five species present were non-native; the common carp (Cyprinus carpio) and the shortfin silverside (Chirostoma humboldtianum). Fish assemblages formed a strong gradient largely separating the lentic, reservoir-impacted, locality (downstream-most site) from the remaining lotic sites. The two most-upstream sites were not distinguishable based on structure of fish assemblages. Three of five species showed significant spatial variation in abundance. The Aztec shiner (Aztecula sallaei) occurred only at the lotic sites and the two species of silversides (Chirostoma) occurred only at the lentic site. Temporal trends in assemblages were less evident, but assemblages in the dry season had lower mean species-richness and mean abundance values. Analysis of distance matrices based on assemblages, site-specific environmental conditions, and spatial structure indicated that a strong, spatially structured environmental gradient was significantly associated with fish assemblages in the wet season, but not assemblages in the dry season. Los Terreros Creek still supports an assemblage of native fish that is typical for the upper Lerma River system. However, this relict system remains threatened by anthropogenic activities including changes in land use and further introduction of exotic species. /// El arroyo Los Terreros, un tributario fragmentado en la cuenca alta del ro Lerma en el centro de Mxico, fue muestreado en cuatro sitios en las temporadas de lluvias (2001) y secas (2002) para evaluar los patrones espaciales y temporales de los ensamble de peces, el estatus de conservacin de las especies nativas y la presencia de especies exticas. Dos de las cinco especies encontradas fueron no nativas, el pescado blanco o charal de Xochimilco (Chirostoma humboldtianum) y la carpa comn (Cyprinus carpio). Los ensamblajes de peces formaron un fuerte gradiente en el que el sitio lntico, impactado por un embalse y el sitio ms ro abajo, se separ de los sitios lticos. Los dos sitios ro arriba no presentaron diferencias en cuanto a ensamblajes de peces. Tres de las cinco especies presentaron variacin espacial significativa en su abundancia. La carpita azteca (Aztecula sallaei) se colect solamente en los sititos lticos y las dos especies de charal o pescado blanco (Chirostoma) se encontraron nicamente en el sitio lntico. Los patrones temporales en los ensamblajes fueron menos evidentes, sin embargo durante la temporada de secas las medias de la riqueza y abundancia de las especies fueron menores. Los anlisis de las matrices de distancia basadas en los ensamblajes, variables ambientales en cada sitio y la estructura espacial, mostraron que el fuerte gradiente espacial y ambiental se asoci significativamente con los ensamblajes de peces durante la temporada de lluvias pero no durante la temporada de secas. El arroyo Los Terreros aun mantiene un ensamblaje de peces nativos que es tpico para el alto Lerma. Sin embargo, este sistema relicto se ve amenazado por las actividades antropognicas que entre otras incluyen cambios en el uso de terreno e introduccin de especies exticas.
20424920|Adult black-bellied whistling ducks (Dendrocygna autumnalis) were observed leaving islands with recently hatched young in a South Texas hypersaline lake during summer 2003. We counted 216 ducklings from 20 broods attempting to make their first swim to the mainland, presumably heading for suitable rearing habitat. Of these, 144 (67%) either died in the water or on the salt-encrusted shoreline within minutes to a few hours of first entering the water. An additional 35 carcasses from unobserved broods were found. Nine carcasses of ducklings were necropsied and they had levels of sodium in the brain above the lethal threshold concentration for sodium poisoning. From our surveillance efforts, we documented a decrease in maximum number of adult black-bellied whistling ducks observed on the islands from 489 in 2002 to 138 in 2003. /// Se observaron adultos patos sirir vientre negro (Dendrocygna autummalis) dejando las islas con cras recientes de un lago hipersalino al sur de Texas, durante el verano del 2003. Se contaron 216 cras de 20 nidadas intentando realizar su primer viaje sobre el lago y llegar a tierra firme, probablemente para encontrar el hbitat adecuado para su crianza. De estas cras, 144 (67%) murieron en el agua o en la orilla incrustada con sal entre minutos hasta unas cuantas horas despus de meterse al agua. Se encontraron un total de 35 cadveres adicionales de anidamientos no observados. A nueve de estas cras se les practic la necropsia y los resultados reflejaron altos niveles de sodio en concentraciones letales para el cerebro. En los esfuerzos de vigilancia que realizamos, observamos un decremento del nmero mximo de adultos de patos sirir vientre negro en las islas, en el 2002 se contaron 489 individuos y 138 individuos en el 2003.
20424921|The razorback sucker (Xyrauchen texanus), an endangered big-river fish of the Colorado River basin, has demonstrated no sustainable recruitment in 4 decades, despite presence of spawning adults and larvae. Lack of adequate recruitment has been attributed to several factors, including predation by nonnative fishes. Substantial funding and effort has been expended on mechanically removing nonnative game fishes, typically targeting large predators. As a result, abundance of larger predators has declined, but the abundance of small nonnative fishes has increased in some areas. We conducted laboratory experiments to determine if small nonnative fishes would consume larval razorback suckers. We tested adults of three small species (threadfin shad, Dorosoma petenense, red shiner, Cyprinella lutrensis; fathead minnow, Pimephales promelas) and juveniles of six larger species (common carp, Cyprinus carpio; yellow bullhead, Ameiurus natalis; channel catfish, Ictalurus punctatus; rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss; green sunfish, Lepomis cyanellus; bluegill, L. macrochirus). These nonnative fishes span a broad ecological range and are abundant within the historical range of the razorback sucker. All nine species fed on larval razorback suckers (total length, 9-16 mm). Our results suggest that predation by small nonnative fishes could be responsible for limiting recovery of this endangered species. /// El matalote jorobado (Xyrauchen texanus), una especie de pez de ros grandes en peligro de extincin de la cuenca del ro Colorado, no ha realizado reclutamiento adecuado durante 4 dcadas a pesar de la presencia de adultos desovando y de larvas. La falta de reclutamiento adecuado se ha ligado a varios factores, incluyendo la depredacin por los peces no nativos. Fondos y esfuerzos considerables han sido utilizados en la extirpacin fsica de peces de pezca no nativos, tpicamente enfocndose en depredadores grandes. Como resultado, la abundancia de depredadores ms grandes ha bajado, pero la abundancia de los peces pequeos no nativos ha subido en algunas reas. Realizamos experimentos en el laboratorio para determinar si peces pequeos no nativos se alimentan de larvas de matalote jorobado. Examinamos adultos de 3 especies pequeas: topote (Dorosoma petenense), sardinita roja (Cyprinella lutrensis) y carpita cabezona (Pimephales promelas), mas juveniles de 6 especies ms grandes: carpa comn (Cyprinus carpio), bagre torito amarillo (Ameiurus natalis), bagre de canal (Ictalurus punctatus), trucha arco iris (Oncorhynchus mykiss), robalo verde (Lepomis cyanellus) y mojarra de agallas azules (L. macrochirus). Estos peces no nativos abarcan un amplio rango ecolgico y son abundantes adentro de la distribucin histrica del matalote jorobado. Todas las especies se alimentaron de larvas del matalote jorobado (longitud total, 9 a 16 mm). Nuestros resultados sugieren que la depredacin por peces pequeos no nativos puede ser responsable de limitar la recuperacin de esta especie en peligro de extincin.
20424922|The Brazilian free-tailed bat (Tadarida brasiliensis) generally is considered a migratory species in western North America. Throughout the southwestern United States, however, winter records are known from many scattered locations. Here I report on T. brasiliensis exiting and entering a cave in southern New Mexico from November to March. I observed that a winter colony of Brazilian free-tailed bats at Carlsbad Cavern was comprised of males and females of different ages, and in February and March, I documented that numbers of individuals inhabiting the cavern were much higher than previously reported. Nearly all individuals returning to the cavern fed in November, about one-half fed in January and February, and none fed in early December and late March. I suspect that individuals wintering in the cavern consume insects during all colder months in the region, and lack of observations of bats feeding in December and March only reflect extremely windy conditions on nights of sampling. From December to March, body masses of individuals declined about 15%. Although this study adds to our understanding of the natural history of T. brasiliensis in winter, why some individuals remain in such northerly areas and do not migrate farther south is not yet understood. /// El murcilago brasileo de cola libre (Tadarida brasiliensis) se considera generalmente como una especie migratoria en el oeste de Norte Amrica. Por todas partes del suroeste de los Estados Unidos los historiales invernales se conocen de varias localidades esparcidas. Aqu informo acerca de T. brasiliensis saliendo de una cueva y entrando en ella en el sur de Nuevo Mxico de noviembre a marzo. Observ que una colonia invernal de los murcilagos brasileos de cola libre en Carlsbad Caverns incluy a machos y hembras de edades diferentes, y en febrero y marzo, document que los nmeros de los individuos habitando la caverna fueron mucho ms altos de lo que se haba reportado antes. Casi todos los individuos que regresaron a la caverna comieron en noviembre, casi la mitad comi en enero y febrero y ninguno comi a principios de diciembre y finales de marzo. Sospecho que los individuos que pasan el invierno en la caverna consumen insectos durante todos los meses fros en la regin, y que la falta de observaciones de murcilagos comiendo en diciembre y marzo slo refleja las condiciones extremamente ventosas en las noches de muestreo. De diciembre a marzo las masas corporales de los individuos declinaron aproximadamente un 15%. A pesar de que este estudio aumenta nuestro conocimiento de la historia natural de T. brasiliensis en el invierno, el por qu algunos individuos se quedan en reas tan norteas y no emigran ms al sur todava no se entiende.
20424923|Little is known about the Arizona gray squirrel (Sciurus arizonensis), which is endemic to mid-elevation riparian habitats in Arizona, New Mexico, and Sonora. In New Mexico, previous compilations of specimen records were restricted to the San Francisco River drainage in western Catron County. We compiled information on museum specimens, literature records, and observations by credible persons to document the distribution and habitats of S. arizonensis in New Mexico. Sciurus arizonensis is broadly distributed throughout the southern Mogollon Plateau region of Catron, Grant, and Sierra counties, including the San Francisco, Gila, Mimbres, and Rio Grande river drainages. All records were closely associated with riparian areas and most were from broadleaf riparian habitats. Sciurus arizonensis was observed to interact with other tree squirrels, including the Abert's squirrel (Sciurus aberti) and red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus). We conclude that there has been neither a recent range expansion nor a range decline of this species in New Mexico. /// No hay mucha informacin sobre la ardilla de Arizona (Sciurus arizonensis), la cual es endmica de hbitats riparios de alturas medianas en los estados de Arizona, Nuevo Mxico y Sonora. En Nuevo Mxico, las recopilaciones anteriores de registros de especimenes han sido restringidas a la cuenca del ro San Francisco en el oeste del condado de Catron. Recopilamos informacin sobre especimenes en museos, registros en la literatura, y observaciones por personas crebles para documentar la distribucin y los hbitats de S. arizonensis en Nuevo Mxico. Sciurus arizonensis se distribuye ampliamente por la regin surea de la meseta de Mogollon, en los condados de Catron, Grant y Sierra, incluyendo las cuencas de los ros San Francisco, Gila, Mimbres y Grande. Todos los registros fueron asociados con reas riparias y la mayora cayeron en hbitats riparios de vegetacin caducifolia. Sciurus arizonensis fue observada interactuando con otras especies de ardillas arbreas, incluyendo la ardilla de Abert (Sciurus aberti) y la ardilla roja (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus). Concluimos que no hubo ni una expansin reciente ni un declive en la distribucin geogrfica de esta especie en Nuevo Mxico.
20424924|Measurements taken on the skull of a bear shot in northern Sonora, Mexico, in 1976 revealed that the skull is from a brown bear (Ursus arctos). The skull appears to be that of a juvenile (sex unknown) and, to our knowledge, represents only the fourth confirmed record of a brown bear from Sonora, although anecdotal accounts exist from the mid-1800s to early 1900s. The present record also establishes that brown bears, considered extirpated from Mexico since the 1960s, were present in Sonora within the past 30 years. /// Las mediciones del crneo de un oso cazado en el norte de Sonora, Mxico, en 1976, confirman que ste perteneca a un oso pardo (Ursus arctos). Aparentemente el crneo es de un juvenil (sexo no determinado) y representa, segn nuestros conocimientos, el cuarto registro confirmado del oso pardo en Sonora, aunque hay varios relatos no confirmados publicados a finales de los aos 1800 y al principio de los aos 1900. El registro que se presenta indica que los osos pardos, considerados extirpados de Mxico desde la dcada de los 1960s, estuvieron presentes en Sonora en los ltimos 30 aos.
20424925|We examined several aspects of the biology of Procinura aemula, including diet, sexual dimorphism, and clutch size, from Chnipas, Chihuahua, Mexico. Diet of P. aemula was composed entirely of invertebrates. Orthopterans and crickets were the majority of the diet, both numerically and volumetrically. Prey size was significantly related to snake size (snout-vent length, head size). There was no sexual dimorphism in snout-vent length or head size. Mean clutch size was 4.6 eggs. Clutch size tended to increase with snout-vent length of females, but the trend was not statistically significant. /// Examinamos varios aspectos de la biologa de Procinura aemula, incluyendo dieta, dimorfismo sexual, y tamao de la puesta, de Chnipas, Chihuahua, Mxico. La dieta de P. aemula estuvo constituida enteramente de invertebrados. Ortpteros, y grillos conformaron la mayor parte de la dieta, tanto por nmero como por volumen. El tamao de las presas estuvo significativamente relacionado al tamao de las serpientes (longitud hocico-cloaca, tamao de la cabeza). No encontramos dimorfismo sexual ni en longitud hocico-cloaca ni en tamao de la cabeza. El tamao promedio de la puesta fue de 4.6 huevos. El tamao de la puesta tendi a incrementar con la longitud hocico-cloaca de las hembras, pero esta relacin no fue estadsticamente significativa.
20424926|We report on ecological interactions between the Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum) and the desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) in the Mojave Desert of southern Nevada. Eggs of desert tortoises are an important source of food for Gila monsters, and although tortoises are not always successful, they vigorously defend their nests from predation by Gila monsters. Shelters were co-occupied by these two species only during the nesting season for desert tortoises, and Gila monsters occupied shelters almost exclusively with female tortoises, probably because these shelters were nesting sites. /// Informamos sobre interacciones ecolgicas entre el monstruo de Gila (Heloderma suspectum) y la tortuga del desierto (Gopherus agassizii) en el desierto de Mojave del sur de Nevada. Los huevos de la tortuga del desierto son una fuente importante de alimento para los monstruos de Gila, y aunque las tortugas no siempre tienen xito, defienden vigorosamente sus nidos contra la depredacin por los monstruos de Gila. Las dos especies de reptiles cohabitaron los mismos refugios slo durante la temporada de puesta de las tortugas del desierto y los monstruos de Gila ocuparon refugios casi exclusivamente con tortugas hembras, probablemente porque estos refugios fueron sitios de anidacin.
20424927|Among sympatric populations of lineages I, III, and VI of Tubifex tubifex, lineage VI recently was shown to exhibit resistance to Myxobolus cerebralis, the causative agent of whirling disease in salmonids. Determining the genetic differentiation exhibited among T. tubifex from different habitats and among lineages is key to understanding the etiology of whirling disease. This study examined genetic divergence within two lineages (III and VI) of T. tubifex from shallow and deep habitats in a tailwater at Navajo Dam in the San Juan River, New Mexico. Starch-gel electrophoresis was used to delineate alleles of T. tubifex from deep and shallow habitats. Cellulose-acetate electrophoreses was used to delineate alleles of lineages III and VI of T. tubifex. Of the seven allozymes analyzed, leucine aminopeptidase (LAP) differentiated between lineages III and VI. The LAP allele 'A' was exhibited only within lineage III whereas both alleles 'A' and 'B' were exhibited within lineage VI. Furthermore, lineages III and VI exhibited a genetic distance of 0.124, but were more similar to each other than to T. tubifex from the Great Lakes. Genetic divergence between lineages III and VI of T. tubifex, when coupled with differences in resistance to M. cerebralis, provide support to the hypothesis that populations of T. tubifex are members of a cryptic-species complex. /// Entre poblaciones simptricas de linajes I, III, y VI de Tubifex tubifex, el linaje VI recientemente mostr resistencia a Myxobolus cerebralis, el agente causante de la enfermedad del torneo en salmnidos. Determinar la diferenciacin gentica exhibida entre T. tubifex de diferentes hbitats y entre linajes es primordial para el entendimiento de la etiologa de la enfermedad del torneo. Este estudio examin la divergencia gentica dentro de dos linajes (III y VI) de T. tubifex en hbitats profundos y superficiales en la salida de agua de la presa Navajo del ro San Juan, Nuevo Mxico. Se us electrofresis de gel de almidn para delinear los alelos de poblaciones de T. tubifex provenientes de hbitats profundos y superficiales. Tambin se us la electrofresis de acetato de celulosa para delinear los alelos de los linajes III y VI de T. tubifex. De las siete aloencimas analizadas, leucina aminopeptidasa (LAP) se diferenci entre los linajes III y VI. El LAP alelo 'A' se exhibi solamente dentro del linaje III mientras que los dos alelos 'A' y 'B' fueron exhibidos dentro del linaje VI. Adems, los linajes III y VI mostraron una distancia gentica de 0.124, pero resultaron ms similares entre s que con poblaciones de T. tubifex de los Grandes Lagos. La divergencia gentica entre los linajes III y VI de T. tubifex en conjunto con las diferencias en resistencia a M. cerebralis, proveen apoyo para la hiptesis de que las poblaciones de T. tubifex son miembros de un complejo de especies crpticas.
20424933|Geographic distribution among members of the Sigmodon hispidus complex (Sigmodon hirsutus, S. hispidus, and S. toltecus) were examined using DNA sequences from the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene. Geographic distribution of each taxon was defined based on DNA sequences obtained from 69 samples (19 newly obtained and 50 from previous studies) collected from North, Central, and South America. These data indicated that S. hispidus is restricted to the southern one-half of the United States and northeastern Mexico (Nuevo Len and Tamaulipas), S. toltecus occupies the eastern one-third of Mexico (central Tamaulipas) to northern Honduras, and S. hirsutus is distributed from central Chiapas and southeastern Oaxaca to northern South America (Venezuela). The newly collected data extend distributions of S. hispidus from the southern United States southward into northeastern Mexico and that of S. toltecus from Chiapas, Mexico, southward to Honduras. Genetic divergence and patterns of phylogeography were examined within each taxon. /// Secuencias del gen mitocondrial citocromo b fueron examinadas para miembros del complejo Sigmodon hispidus (Sigmodon hirsutus, S. hispidus, y S. toltecus). La distribucin geogrfica de cada taxn fue definida en base a las secuencias genticas obtenidas para 69 ejemplares (19 obtenidos nuevamente y 50 de estudios anteriores) colectados de Norteamrica, Centroamrica y Sudamrica. Estos datos indican que S. hispidus est restringido a la mitad sur de los Estados Unidos y el noreste de Mxico (Nuevo Len y Tamaulipas), S. toltecus ocupa el tercio oriental de Mxico (centro de Tamaulipas) hasta el norte de Honduras, y S. hirsutus se distribuye desde el centro de Chiapas y el sureste de Oaxaca hasta el norte de Sudamrica (Venezuela). Los datos nuevamente recogidos amplan las distribuciones de S. hispidus desde el sur de los Estados Unidos hasta el noreste de Mxico, y la de S. toltecus desde Chiapas, Mxico, hacia el sur hasta Honduras. La divergencia gentica y los patrones filogeogrficos fueron examinados dentro de cada taxn.
20424934|We investigated associations between rainfall and body condition of desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) in the Sonoran Desert, California, using two indices of condition based on body fat: a categorical score based on subcutaneous fat and visibility of bones under the skin of free-ranging animals via remote photography, and percent fat in the marrow of long-bones of harvested males. There were positive correlations between rainfall and proportion of deer in good condition (r = 0.60, P = 0.064) and proportion of deer in fair condition (r = 0.70, P = 0.017). Proportion of deer in poor condition was negatively correlated with rainfall (r = -0.72, P = 0.020). There was evidence of a year effect on percent fat in the marrow of metacarpus and metatarsus bones (P = 0.030), such that years in which deer had lower average marrow fat coincided with years having lower rainfall. These findings demonstrate the importance of rainfall, likely operating through quantity or quality of forage, on body condition of mule deer, which have subsequent effects on demography. An understanding of these patterns will continue to be important for the conservation of ungulate populations in arid regions. /// Investigamos las asociaciones entre la precipitacin y la condicin corporal del venado bura del desierto (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus), en el desierto Sonorense en California, utilizando dos ndices de condicin basados en la grasa corporal: una calificacin categrica basada en la grasa subcutnea y la visibilidad de los huesos debajo de la piel de animales silvestres va fotografa remota, y el porcentaje de grasa en el tutano de huesos largos en machos colectados. Hubo correlaciones positivas entre la precipitacin y la proporcin de venados en buena condicin (r = 0.60, P = 0.064) y de los de condicin intermedia (r = 0.70, P = 0.017). La proporcin de los venados en mala condicin se correlacionn negativamente con la precipitacin (r = --0.72, P = 0.020). Se evidenci un efecto del ao en el porcentaje de grasa en el tutano de los metacarpos y metatarsos (P = 0.030); los aos en que el promedio de la grasa del tutano fue ms bajo correspondieron con los aos de menor precipitacin. stos resultados demuestran la importancia de la precipitacin, probablemente afectando la abundancia y la calidad del forraje, en la condicin corporal del venado bura, lo que podra tener efectos a nivel demogrfico. El conocimiento de estas relaciones contribuira a la conservacin de las poblaciones de los ungulados de las regiones ridas.
20424935|Recruitment of pronghorns (Antilocapra americana; fawns:100 females) through late summer was positively correlated with precipitation during the previous winter (October-April) on 10 areas in Arizona during 1983-2002. There was no evidence of serial autocorrelation in recruitment of fawns and no strong within-year effects, even after accounting for differences in winter precipitation among sites. There was no evidence that the relationship between winter precipitation and recruitment differed among populations. Winter precipitation explained 38.5% of variability in recruitment among years within populations. We hypothesize that winter precipitation is a limiting factor affecting recruitment in populations of pronghorns in arid and semi-arid habitats in Arizona. /// Reclutamiento de berrendo americano (Antilocapra americana; cervatillos:100 hembras) durante la ltima parte del verano estuvo correlacionado positivamente con la precipitacin en el invierno anterior (de octubre a abril) en 10 reas en Arizona durante 1983-2002. No encontramos evidencia alguna de autocorrelacin serial en reclutamiento de cervatillos y ningn efecto fuerte dentro de un ao, an despus de tomar en cuenta las diferencias invernales en precipitacin entre sitios. No hubo evidencia de que la relacin entre la precipitatin invernal y el reclutamiento difiri entre poblaciones. La precipitatin invernal explic el 38.5% de la variabilidad en el reclutamiento entre aos dentro de las poblaciones. Hipotetizamos que la precipitacin invernal es un factor limitante que afecta el reclutamiento de berrendos en poblaciones localizadas en hbitats ridos y semi-ridos en Arizona.
20424936|Ash Meadows National Wildlife Refuge, Nye Co., Nevada, is a small oasis in the northern Mojave Desert. Changes in use of land through irrigated agriculture and associated pumping of groundwater, as well as mining peat moss, altered the environment prior to its designation as a refuge in 1984. We evaluated relationships between land use, land cover, and groundwater in Ash Meadows National Wildlife Refuge from 1948 to 2004. Recovery of land cover was documented following cessation of agricultural activities and pumping of groundwater. Land-use activities from 1948 to 1980 reduced land cover by 1,141 ha, while later changes in land-use activities allowed recovery of 935 ha of land cover. Limited change in groundwater might have aided in recovery of land cover, although no relationship was established between depth-to-groundwater and land cover. /// El Refugio Nacional de la Vida Silvestre Ash Meadows, Condado de Nye, Nevada, es un oasis pequeo en la parte nortea del desierto Mojave. Cambios en el uso de la tierra por la agricultura regada y el relacionado bombeo de agua subterrnea, as como la minera del musgo de turbera, alteraron el medio ambiente antes de nombrarlo como refugio en 1984. Esta investigacin examin la relacin entre el uso de la tierra, la cobertura de la tierra y el agua subterrnea en Ash Meadows de 1948 hasta 2004. Recuperacin de la cobertura de la tierra fue documentada despus de la cesacin de actividades agrcolas y el bombeo de agua subterrnea. Actividades del uso de la tierra de 1948 hasta 1980 redujeron la cobertura de la tierra por 1,141 ha, mientras cambios posteriores en las actividades del uso de la tierra permitieron la recuperacin de 935 ha de cobertura. Cambio limitado del agua subterrnea pudo haber ayudado en la recuperacin de la cobertura de tierra, aunque no se establecieron lazos entre la profundidad del agua subterrnea y la cobertura de la tierra.
20424937|This study was conducted to characterize fishery resources inhabiting salt-evaporation ponds and sloughs in South San Francisco Bay, and to identify key environmental variables that influence distribution of fishes. The ponds, which were originally constructed and operated for commercial production of salt, have undergone preliminary modifications (installation of culverts, gates, and other water-control structures) in preparation for full restoration to mostly tidal wetlands over the next 2 decades. We sampled fish from two salt-pond complexes (Alviso complex and Eden Landing complex), each consisting of several pond systems and their associated sloughs. Cluster analysis of species of fish indicated that at least two species assemblages were present, one characteristic of ponds and the other characteristic of sloughs and slough-like ponds. The slough-like ponds exhibited water-quality conditions (especially salinity) that resembled conditions found in the sloughs. Pond fishes were represented by 12 species, whereas slough fishes were represented by 22 species. Except for bay pipefish (Syngnathus leptorhynchus), which was unique to ponds, all species present in ponds also were in sloughs and slough-like ponds. These results indicated that species of fish in ponds originated from the sloughs. According to canonical-discriminant analysis, four environmental variables were useful for discriminating between the two species assemblages. Most discriminatory power was contributed by the index of habitat connectivity, a measure of minimum distance that a fish must travel to reach a particular pond from the nearest slough. Apparently, as fish from sloughs enter and move through interconnected salt ponds, environmental stress factors increase in severity until only the more tolerant species remain. The most likely source of stress is salinity, because this variable was second in importance to the index of habitat connectivity in discriminating between the two species assemblages. Water temperature and concentration of dissolved oxygen also seemingly influenced spatial distribution of fishes, although they were less important than salinity. /// Este estudio fue conducido para caracterizar los recursos pesqueros en salinas y barrizales de la Baha de San Francisco y para identificar las principales variables del medio ambiente que influencian la distribucin de peces. Las salinas que fueron construidas y operadas originalmente para la produccin de sal comercial han pasado por modificaciones preliminares (instalacin de alcantarillas, esclusas, y otras estructuras para el control del agua) en preparacin para su restauracin total a humedales regulados por la marea durante las 2 prximas dcadas. Colectamos peces en dos conjuntos de salinas (Alviso y Eden Landing), cada conjunto consistiendo de varios sistemas de salinas y barrizales asociados. El anlisis de grupos de las especies de peces indic que al menos dos ensamblajes de especies estuvieron presentes, uno caracterstico de las salinas y otro de los barrizales y charcas parecidas a barrizales. Las charcas parecidas a barrizales presentaron condiciones de la calidad del agua (especialmente la salinidad) parecida a las condiciones encontradas en barrizales. Los peces de las salinas fueron representados por 12 especies mientras que los peces de los barrizales fueron representados por 22 especies. Excepto por el pez pipa de baha (Syngnathus leptorhynchus), encontrado nicamente en las salinas, todas las especies presentes en las salinas tambin fueron encontradas en barrizales y en charcas parecidas a barrizales. Estos resultados indican que las especies de peces en las salinas se originaron en los barrizales. De acuerdo al anlisis de discriminacin cannica, cuatro variables del medio ambiente fueron tiles para la discriminacin entre los dos ensamblajes de especies. El ndice de conectividad de hbitat tuvo el poder discriminatorio ms alto, una medida de la distancia mnima que un pez debe viajar para alcanzar una determinada salina desde el barrizal ms cercano. Aparentemente, una vez que un pez procedente de un barrizal entra y atraviesa las salinas interconectadas, el pez experimenta factores estresantes que se intensifican hasta que slo los peces ms tolerantes de factores ambientales permanecen en dichas salinas. La fuente ms importante de estrs es la salinidad, porque esta variable fue segunda en importancia al ndice de conectividad de hbitat en discriminar entre los dos ensamblajes de especies. La temperatura del agua y la concentracin de oxgeno disuelto tambin parecieron haber influido en la distribucin espacial de los peces, aunque sus efectos fueron menos pronunciados que los de la salinidad.
20424938|We studied assemblages of small mammals in four types of coniferous forest (white fir, red fir, mixed-fir, and pine-cedar) in the Sierra Nevada of California for 2 field seasons (2003-2004). We assessed production of cones by dominant species of conifers in both years. Production of cones was greater overall in autumn 2003, but varied within type of forest and between species of conifers. Parallel to this, mean maximum densities of North American deermice (Peromyscus maniculatus) increased in 2004 (from 0.7-7.3 individuals/ha to 65.7-112.7 individuals/ha). Size of populations of golden-mantled ground squirrels (Spermophilus lateralis) were similar in both years; typical of hibernating species, this taxon occurred at low densities in May (6.6  0.2), peak densities were in September (24.5-32.5 individuals/ha), and their populations declined in October (9.2  4.8). Long-eared chipmunks (Tamias quadrimaculatus) reached higher densities in red fir (48.2  13.4 individuals/ha) and mixed-fir forests (36.0  13.5 individuals/ha) than in white fir forests (7.6  2.7 individuals/ha), and all populations peaked in September. Shadow chipmunks (Tamias senex) remained at lower densities than T. quadrimaculatus except during September 2004, when they reached high densities (54.6  26.8 individuals/ha). Survival of P. maniculatus was dependant on an interaction between type of forest and month, with additive effects of over-winter survival and mean production of cones in autumn 2003. Survival of S. lateralis varied by month, whereas survival in both species of Tamias varied with the interaction of type of forest and month, plus additional effects of over-winter survival and mean production of cones for T. quadrimaculatus. Dusky-footed woodrats (Neotoma fuscipes) were present at lower elevations and reached greatest densities in pine-cedar forests. Northern flying squirrels (Glaucomys sabrinus) were not captured commonly, and they occurred predominantly in red fir forests. /// Estudiamos ensamblajes de pequeos mamferos en cuatro tipos de bosques de conferas (abeto blanco, abeto rojo, abetos mixtos y pino-cedro) en la Sierra Nevada de California durante dos temporadas (2003-2004). Evaluamos la produccin de conos por especies de conferas dominantes en cada ao. La produccin de conos fue mayor, en general, en el otoo de 2003, pero vara por tipo de bosque y entre las especies de conferas. Paralelamente, el promedio de densidades mximas de ratones del campo (Peromyscus maniculatus) aument en 2004 (desde 0,7-7,3 individuos/ha hasta 65,7-112,7 individuos/ha). Los nmeros de ardillas manto dorado (Spermophilus lateralis) fueron similares en ambos aos; tpico de las especies que invernan, esta especie ocurri a bajas densidades en mayo (6,6  0.2), densidades fueron mximas en septiembre (24,5-32,5 individuos/ha), y sus nmeros se redujeron en octubre (9,2  4,8). Las ardillas rayadas orejonas (Tamias quadrimaculatus) alcanzaron mayores densidades en bosques de abeto rojo (48,2  13,4 individuos/ha) y en bosques de abetos mixtos (36,0  13,5 individuos/ha) que en los bosques de abeto blanco (7,6  2,7 individuos/ha), y todas las poblaciones alcanzaron sus nmeros mximos en septiembre. La ardilla rayada de Allen (Tamias senex) se mantuvo en densidades menores de T. quadrimaculatus excepto durante el mes de septiembre de 2004 cuando alcanzaron altas densidades (54,6  26,8 individuos/ha). La sobrevivencia de P. maniculatus fue dependiente de una interaccin entre el tipo de bosque y el mes, con efectos adicionales de sobrevivencia invernal y la produccin promedia de conos en el otoo de 2003. La sobrevivencia de S. lateralis vari por mes, mientras que la sobrevivencia de ambas especies de Tamias vari con la interaccin de tipo de bosques y el mes, ms efectos adicionales de la sobrevivencia invernal yla pproduccin de conos para T. quadrimaculatus. Las ratas cambalacheras patas oscuras (Neotoma fuscipes) estuvieron presentes en las elevaciones bajas y llegaron a mayores densidades en bosques de pinos y cedros. Las ardillas voladora del norte (Glaucomys sabrinus) no fueron capturados comnmente, y se encontraron principalmente en los bosques de abeto rojo. yse eprinlbosqarojo.
20424939|We investigated effects of prescribed understory fire and shrub density on the pinyon deermouse (Peromyscus truei), brush deermouse (P. boylii), and California pocket mouse (Chaetodipus californicus) in a mixed blue oak-coast live oak (Quercus douglasii-Q. agrifolia) woodland of coastal-central California. We simultaneously estimated survival and abundance of all species during pre-burn and post-burn. Abundance of pinyon deermice and California pocket mice was significantly higher in plots with high (&gt;25%) shrub cover compared to plots with low (&lt;10%) shrub cover. A light-to-moderate intensity, prescribed, understory fire had no significant effect on survival for any of the three species we investigated. The fire significantly reduced abundance of pinyon deermice in the trapping session immediately after the fire, but abundance increased in subsequent trapping sessions relative to controls. Low intensity, prescribed, understory fire in oak woodland is unlikely to significantly alter populations of rodents if patches of well-structured habitat are maintained. Benefits of prescribed fire for oak woodlands in reduction of the risk of wildfire and rejuvenation of vegetation likely outweigh any shortterm negative effects on populations of mice. /// Investigamos el efecto de la quema prescrita del sotobosque y la densidad de los matorrales en el ratn de campo (Peromyscus truei), el ratn arbustero (P. boylii) y el ratn de bolsillo (Chaetodipus californicus) en un bosque mixto de robles (Quercus douglasii-Q. agrifolia) de la zona costera central de California. Hicimos clculos simultneos de la supervivencia y abundancia de todas las especies antes y despus de la quema. La abundancia de los ratones de campo y de bolsillo fue significativamente mayor en parcelas con un nivel alto de cobertura de arbustos (&gt;25%) en comparacin a parcelas con un nivel bajo de cobertura de arbustos (&lt;10%). Una quema prescrita de intensidad ligera a moderada del sotobosque no tuvo efectos significativos en la supervivencia de las tres especies bajo investigacin El fuego redujo marcadamente la abundancia de ratones de campo en la sesin de captura inmediatamente despus del incendio, pero en relacin a la poblacin control, la abundancia aument en sesiones de captura subsecuentes. La quema prescrita de baja intensidad del sotobosque en un bosque de robles tiene pocas probabilidades de cambiar significativamente la poblacin de roedores si se mantienen parches de hbitat bien estructurados. Los beneficios que la quema prescrita en bosques de robles tiene en la reduccin de vegetacin combustible y el rejuvenecimiento de la vegetacin probablemente son mayores que cualquier efecto negativo a corto plazo en las poblaciones de ratones.
20424940|Toxins of Xenopus laevis elicit gaping responses in some snakes, but introduced populations of this species in California provide an additional food source for Thamnophis hammondii with no observable ill effects to the snake. This study addresses the locomotor performance of T. hammondii after consuming this toxic frog. Endurance and speed of T. hammondii were measured along a 2-m long racetrack when subjects were not fed recently, when they were fed sunfish (Lepomis, a nontoxic prey), and when they were fed X. laevis. Snakes tended to be slower after eating, but ingestion of X. laevis did not affect either measure of locomotor performance in T. hammondii. Because performance of T. hammondii is not compromised, selective pressure against consumption of X. laevis probably is absent. /// Toxinas de Xenopus laevis provocan que algunas serpientes abran la boca desmesuradamente, pero poblaciones introducidas de esta especie en California proporcionan una fuente adicional de alimento para Thamnophis hammondii sin efectos adversos observables en la serpiente. Este estudio se enfoca en el desempeo de movimiento de T. hammondii despus de consumir esta rana txica. Se midieron la resistencia y la velocidad de T. hammondii en una pista de 2 metros de largo cuando los sujetos no fueron alimentados recientemente, cuando fueron alimentados con un pez luna (Lepomis, una presa no txica), y cuando fueron alimentados X. laevis. Las serpientes tendieron a ser ms lentas despus de comer, pero la ingestin de X. leavis no afect ninguna medida de movimiento en T. hammondii. Debido a que el desempeo de T. hammondii no es afectado, la presin selectiva contra el consumo de X. laevis probablemente est ausente.
20424941|We use multiple years of collections in rivers, perennial wetlands, and ephemeral tinajas to report on overall biodiversity of aquatic invertebrates in the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, Utah. A total of 570 samples of aquatic invertebrates was collected at 166 locations. Over the study period, invertebrates were identified from 31 orders, 104 families, and 192 genera. Major habitat types (rivers, perennial wetlands, and ephemeral tinajas) supported unique and taxonomically rich assemblages of invertebrates; taxonomic richness was greatest in rivers. Among rivers, richness of genera of aquatic invertebrates was greatest in groundwater-fed streams and perennial, snowmelt-runoff, rivers and least in flood-prone rivers. Future studies should focus on identifying and collecting invertebrates from unique habitats, especially the numerous wetland-like habitats that occur across the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, such as hanging gardens and alcove pools, as well as ephemeral streams. /// Utilizamos colecciones de aos mltiples en ros, pantanos perennes y tinajas efmeras para hacer un informe sobre la biodiversidad total de los invertebrados acuticos en el Monumento Nacional de Grand Staircase Escalante en el estado de Utah. Un total de 570 muestras de invertebrados acuticos fue recogido en 166 sitios. Durante el perodo del estudio, invertebrados de 31 rdenes, 104 familias y 192 gneros fueron identificados. Todos los tipos principales de hbitat (ros, pantanos perennes, y tinajas efmeras) abarcaron ensamblajes nicos y taxonmicamente ricos de invertebrados. La riqueza taxonmica de invertebrados acuticos fue ms alta en los ros. Entre los ros, la riqueza de gneros de invertebrados acuticos fue ms alta en los arroyos alimentados por agua subterrnea y en los ros perennes de nieve derretida, y ms baja en los ros propensos a inundaciones. Los estudios futuros deben centrarse en identificar y recoger invertebrados de hbitats nicos, especialmente en los numerosos hbitats como pantanales que se presenten en todo el Monumento Nacional de Grand Staircase Escalante, como en los jardines colgantes y en las pozas, as como en los arroyos efmeros.
20424942|Emus (Dromaius novaehollandiae) have been commercially farmed in the United States since the early 1980s, but the market for emu products has never been large. Emus have escaped captivity and have been surviving and successfully reproducing in the wild. To determine if there was potential for competition with native species of wildlife, we examined diets of free-ranging emus in the Cross-Timbers and Prairies eco-region of Texas during 1999 and 2000. Diets of emus were composed of native grasses, forbs, mast, drupes, and leaves. In addition to native foods, emus also were consuming large quantities of livestock feed and agricultural crops. Free-ranging emus have potential to compete with native species of wildlife, particularly birds, if their numbers continue to increase. /// Las avestruces (Dromaius novaehollandia) se han usado comercialmente desde el principio de la dcada de 1980. Sin embargo, el mercado para los productos de avestruces ha sido limitado. Las avestruces se han escapado de cautiverio, y sobreviven y se reproducen exitosamente en forma silvestre. Para determinar si existe el potencial para competir con fauna silvestre nativa, examinamos la dieta de las avestruces en condiciones libres en dos regiones de Texas, en la zona de pino y la zona de pastizales, durante 1999 y 2000. Las dietas fueron constituidas principalmente de pastos, hierbas, bellotas, frutas silvestres, y hojas. Adems de los alimentos nativos, los avestruces consumieron tambin grandes cantidades de cultivos y alimentos para ganado. Los avestruces en condiciones libres tienen el potencial de competir con especies de fauna nativa, especialmente aves, si sus nmeros continan aumentando.
20424943|The Sonoran pronghorn (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis) has been listed as endangered since 1967, yet little is known about its behavior due to difficulties observing them in the wild. During a study of Sonoran pronghorn in a semi-captive breeding facility in southern Arizona, we observed behaviors and timing of life-history events that have not been documented in peer-reviewed literature, including birth dates of fawns, pre-parturient and post-parturient behavior, timing of breeding season, behavior during the breeding season, date of horn casting by males, and response to predators. Behavior of the Sonoran pronghorn before and after parturition, during breeding, and toward predators was consistent with that reported for other subspecies. Timing of breeding, parturition, and horn casting all occurred earlier than reported for more northerly populations. Variation in timing of life-history activities was the main difference between the Sonoran pronghorn and other subspecies and would be expected due to the correspondence between seasonal rainfall and forage conditions in the Sonoran Desert and timing of parturition. /// El berrendo sonorense (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis) ha estado en la lista de especies en peligro de extincin desde 1967, sin embargo, se sabe muy poco sobre su comportamiento debido a las dificultades para observarlo en su ambiente natural. Durante un estudio sobre el berrendo sonorense en una instalacin de crianza semi-cautiva en el sur de Arizona, observamos eventos sobre su comportamiento y de su historia de vida que no han sido documentados en la literatura cientfica: fechas de nacimiento de las cras, comportamiento pre-parto y post-parto, fenologa de la poca de reproduccin, comportamiento durante la poca de reproduccin, fecha de prdida de cuernos en el macho, y su comportamiento frente a depredadores. El comportamiento del berrendo sonorense antes y despus del parto, durante la reproduccin y hacia los depredadores fue similar al comportamiento reportado para otras subespecies. La fenologa de apareamiento, parto y prdida de cuernos empez antes que lo reportado para poblaciones ms norteas. La variacin en la fenologa de actividades de historia natural fue la diferencia principal entre el berrendo sonorense y otras subespecies y podra deberse a la correspondencia entre las lluvias estacionales y las condiciones de forraje en el desierto de Sonora y la poca de parto.
20424944|Soil was collected in 2002-2003 from a cienega in southeastern Arizona to assess species present as seeds in the soil seedbank. In 2002, dominant vegetation was bulrush (Schoenoplectus pungens). Due to drought-related drying of the marsh and other hydrological changes, vegetation at the study site subsequently shifted to a monoculture of upland sunflower (Helianthus annuus). In greenhouse experiments, a total of 20 species germinated from the seedbank soil. The most abundant germinants were bulrush, cattail (Typha domingensis), and spikerush (Eleocharis macrostachya). The endangered Huachuca water umbel (Lilaeopsis schaffneriana ssp. recurva) germinated in several of the samples and additional seeds were present in the soil. A decline in total density of seeds occurred over the course of the study, probably due to loss of wetland species. Species composition of the seedbank and standing vegetation were not correlated, which is a common result in studies of seedbanks. If hydrology is restored, we predict many of the wetland species will germinate and recolonize the area, although this is limited by duration of seed viability. Thus, management of the wetland should include examination of current hydrology as soon as possible if natural reestablishment of wetland species, particularly Huachuca water umbel, is desired. /// Tierra fue recaudada entre 2002-2003 de una cienega en el sudeste de Arizona para evaluar especies presentes como semillas en el banco de semillas de tierra. En 2002, la vegetacin dominante en la cienega era junco (Schoenoplectus pungens). Debido a una sequa en el pantano y por otros cambios hidrolgicos, la vegetacin en el sitio del estudio ha cambiado a monocultivo de girasol (Helianthus annuus). En experimentos de invernadero, un total de 20 especies germinaron en el banco de semillas de tierra. Los germinantes ms abundantes fueron junco (S. pungens), espadaa (Typha domingensis) y Eleocharis macrostachya. La umbela acutica de Huachuca (Lilaeopsis schaffneriana ssp. recurva), que est en peligro de extincin, germin en varias muestras y ms semillas estuvieron presentes en la tierra. Durante el curso del estudio ocurri una disminucin en la densidad total de las semillas, probablemente atribuible a la desaparicin de especies de pantano. La composicin de especies del banco de semillas y la vegetacin presente n estuvieron correlacionadas, lo cual es un resultado comn en estudios de bancos de semillas. Si la hidrologa es restablecida, predecimos que muchas de las especies de pantano van a germinar y recolonizar la zona, aunque esto se limita a la duracin de la vialidad de las semillas. Por lo tanto, el manejo del pantano debe incluir, tan pronto sea posible, el examen de la condicin hidrolgica actual si el restablecimiento de especies de pantano, particularmene la umbela acutica de Huachuca, es deseado.
20424945|We document how two species of desert aquatic insects use positive rheotaxis to escape drought in desert rivers. We observed ca. 3,600 adults of the long-toed water beetle Postelichus immsi (Coleoptera: Dryopidae) crawling upstream concurrent with upstream recession of surface water in the Santa Maria River, La Paz and Mohave counties, Arizona. At the same time, we observed larvae of the gray sanddragon Progomphus borealis (Odonata: Gomphidae) burrowing and swimming upstream in large densities (690 larvae/m). Both taxa moved with sufficient speed to arrive at perennial reaches of the river before being overtaken by drought. /// Se documenta cmo dos especies de insectos acuticos de zonas desrticas usan el reotaxis positivo para escapar a la sequa. Se observaron alrededor de 3,600 adultos del escarabajo Postelichus immsi (Coleoptera: Dryopidae) arrastrndose ro arriba mientras que el agua superficial se retrasaba en el ro Santa Mara en los condados de La Paz y Mohave, Arizona. Paralelamente se observaron larvas de Progomphus borealis (Odonata: Gomphidae) de gran densidad (690 larvas/m) desplazndose ro arriba por vas subterrneas y nadando. Ambas especies viajaron con suficiente velocidad para alcanzar los tramos perennes del ro, evadiendo la sequa.
20424946|Recent phylogenetic work has demonstrated that the ability of species of the angiosperm family Nyctaginaceae to self-fertilize is evolutionarily labile. However, the potential for further investigation of the evolution of mating systems in the family is limited, because there is no information on reproductive biology for several genera. I performed an experiment on a natural population of Tripterocalyx carneus to determine whether this species is self-compatible. Individual flowers were emasculated, bagged to exclude pollinators, or both. Flowers that were bagged but not emasculated set viable fruit in the majority of cases, which demonstrates that this species is self-compatible. /// Un estudio filogentico reciente ha demostrado que la capacidad de autofecundacin de las especies de la familia Nyctaginaceae de las angiospermas es evolutivamente cambiable. Sin embargo, el potencial de investigaciones extensas sobre la evolucin de sistemas de reproduccin en la familia es limitado, porque no hay informacin sobre la biologa reproductiva de varios gneros. Realic un experimento sobre una poblacin natural de Tripterocalyx carneus para determinarse si esta especie es autocompatible. A flores individuales se les removieron los estambres o fueron embolsadas para excluir a los polinizadores, o ambos. El grupo de flores que fue embolsado, pero al que no se le removieron los estambres, produjo frutos viables en la mayora de los casos, lo cual demuestra que esta especie es autocompatible.
20424947|Extensive surveys of recent occurrences of Pseudemys gorzugi and its likely historical distribution in the Rio Grande Basin reveal a low population density and a paucity of juveniles. Genetic analyses of the mitochondrial ND4 gene and five microsatellite DNA markers indicate the population may be relatively homogeneous throughout its range. In addition, research shows evidence of multiple threats common to chelonian populations, including habitat degradation, introduction of fire ants, and commercial collection for the pet trade. This research provides state management authorities with essential data to determine if additional conservation efforts are necessary to protect this unique species. /// Muestreos intensivos de la distribucin histrica y actual de Pseudemys gorzugi en la cuenca del ro Bravo revelan una baja abundancia poblacional y pocos juveniles. Anlisis genticos del gen mitocondrial ND4 y cinco marcadores microsatlite de ADN indican que la poblacin puede ser relativamente homognea a travs de su distribucin. Adems, la investigacin muestra evidencia de mltiples amenazas que comnmente afectan poblaciones de tortugas, incluyendo la degradacin del hbitat, la introduccin de hormigas de fuego, y la colecta comercial para el mercado de mascotas. Esta investigacin provee a las autoridades estatales informacin esencial para determinar si es necesario incrementar los esfuerzos de conservacin para proteger a esta especie nica.
20424948|We report the cladoceran Diaphanosoma fluviatile Hansen 1899 in Lake Waco and Lake Mexia, two reservoirs located in central Texas. This species is formerly known from Central and South America and only recently was reported from some locations in Louisiana and Florida, and from the state of Veracruz, Mexico. Our new records represent a westward expansion of records previously documented in the southern United States. /// Registramos la presencia del cladcero Diaphanosoma fluviatile Hansen 1899 en el Lago Waco y Lago Mexia, dos embalses localizados en la regin central del estado de Texas. Esta especie es conocida primeramente de Amrica Central y Amrica del Sur y slo recientemente fue registrada en algunas localidades de los estados de Louisiana y Florida, EEUU y en el estado de Veracruz, Mxico. Nuestros nuevos registros representan una expansin hacia el oeste de los registros previamente documentados en el sur de los Estados Unidos.
20424949|This report is the first to document giant anteaters (Myrmecophaga tridactyla) in Nicaragua. An indigenous hunter killed four giant anteaters in the Bosawas Biosphere Reserve, Nicaragua. The Mayangna and Miskito residents of the reserve do not eat giant anteaters, but hunters sometimes kill the animals because of the threat they pose to hunting dogs. /// Este es el primer reporte documentado de osos hormigueros gigantes (Myrmecophaga tridactyla) en Nicaragua. Un cazador indgena mat cuatro osos hormigueros gigantes en la reserva de la biosfera Bosawas en Nicaragua. Los residentes de Mayangna y de Miskito que viven en la reserva no comen los osos hormigueros, pero los cazadores a veces los matan para defender a sus perros de caza.
20424954|Astrophytum asterias (star cactus) is an obligate outcrosser that does not reproduce vegetatively, so all reproduction is the result of inter-plant transfer of pollen by insects. By measuring seed set resulting from single pollinator visits, we evaluated effectiveness (mean seed set per visit) and importance of pollinator (effectiveness times frequency of visitation) of insects visiting flowers of A. asterias. Results indicate that the most common visitor, Macrotera lobata, is a relatively ineffective pollinator, while the less common Diadasia rinconis is the most effective and important pollinator. Two behavioral variables (duration of visit, whether or not visitors landed on the stigma) were assessed as possible predictors of fruit set. While duration of visit was not predictive of fruit set, there was a positive correlation between fruit set and the proportion of visits a visitor landed on the stigma when entering the flower. /// Astrophytum asterias (biznaga-algodoncillo de estrella) posee cruzamiento exgeno obligado y no se reproduce por medios vegetales. Por lo tanto, toda su reproduccin es el resultado de polinizacin entrecruzada por medio de insectos. Midiendo el nmero de semillas producidas por visitas de un solo polinizador, evaluamos la eficacia (nmero promedio de semillas/visita) y la importancia (eficacia por frecuencia de visitas) de polinizadores insectos visitando flores de A. asterias. Los resultados indican que el visitante ms comn, Macrotera lobata, es relativamente ineficaz como polinizador, mientras que el menos comn Diadasia rinconis es el ms eficaz e importante de los polinizadores. Dos variables de comportamiento (duracin de visita, contacto con el estigma) fueron evaluadas como posibles pronsticos de produccin de frutas. Mientras que la duracin de visita no se correlacion con produccin de frutas, hubo una correlacin positiva entre la produccin de frutas y la proporcin de visitas cuando un polinizador se pos en el estigma al entrar en la flor.
20424955|Mechanical thinning is an important silviculture technique for timber production and reducing woody fuels in coniferous forest, but little is known about its effect on wildlife in mixed-coniferous forests in the American Southwest. During 2005-2006 we examined diversity, abundance and survival of terrestrial mammals in thinned and non-thinned mixed-coniferous forest in the Sacramento Mountains, Lincoln National Forest, in southern New Mexico. The three thinning treatments included two non-commercial thins with different slash treatments (i.e., lop-pile, lop-scatter) and a commercial harvest using selective logging. There were two non-thinned treatments that differed in age of stand (i.e., 20-30 years and 60-100 years post harvest). In general, thinned treatments had higher richness and abundance of mammals in comparison with the older non-thinned stand, but did not differ in richness and abundance from the younger non-thinned stand. Abundance of the North American deermouse (Peromyscus maniculatus) and red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) did not differ among treatments. However, survival of P. maniculatus varied more in the non-thinned stands. Abundances of the gray-footed chipmunk (Tamias canipes) and long-tailed vole (Microtus longicaudus) were significantly lower in the older non-thinned stand than in all thinned treatments. Most large mammals were documented in thinned treatments. These results suggest that thinning older stands of mixedconiferous forest that are overly dense compared with historical conditions benefit the mammal community through increases in diversity and abundance. In comparing the three mechanical-thinning treatments evaluated, none provided a clear cost or advantage to mammals. However, additional controlled experiments are needed to further corroborate these results. /// El clareo mcnico de rboles en bosques es una tcnica importante en la silvicultura para la produccin de madera y para la reduccin de combustible leoso en bosques de conferas. Sin embargo, se sabe poco acerca de su efecto sobre la fauna silvestre de bosques de conferos mixtos en el suroeste de los Estados Unidos. Durante 2005-2006 examinamos la diversidad, abundancia y sobrevivencia de los mamferos terrestres en bosques de coniferas mixtos, clareados y no clareados, en las Sacramento Mountains, Lincoln National Forest, en el sur de Nuevo Mxico. Se compararon 3 tratamientos de clareo: desbrozar-apilar, desbrozar-dispersar y corte selectivo comercial. Los bosques no clareados difirieron en sus edades (20-30 aos y 60-100 aos posteriores a la ltima cosecha). En general, los rodales clareados tuvieron una mayor riqueza y abundancia de mamferos en comparacin con el rodal no clareado ms viejo, pero no difirieron en la riqueza y la abundancia con respecto al rodal no clareado ms joven. La abundancia del ratn de campo (Peromyscus maniculatus) y la ardilla roja (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) no difiri entre tratamientos. Sin embargo, la sobrevivencia de P. maniculatus vari ms en los rodales no clareados. La abundancia de la ardilla de pata gris (Tamias canipes) y del ratn de cola larga (Microtus longicaudus) fue significativamente ms baja en el rodal no aclareado ms viejo que en todos los rodales clareados. La mayora de los mamferos grandes se encontr en sitios clareados. Los resultados sugieren que el clareo de bosques de conferas ms viejos que son ms densos comparados con condiciones histricas beneficia la comunidad de mamferos, incrementando su abundancia y diversidad. Al parecer, ninguno de los tres tratamientos de clareo fue mejor o peor para mamferos; sin embargo, es necesario llevar a cabo experimentos controlados que permitan corroborar estos resultados.
20424956|The Great Plains ratsnake (Elaphe guttata emoryi) is a poorly known species of the central and southern United States. We captured 24 Great Plains ratsnakes over 3 years at Fort Hood, Texas, and used radiotelemetry to determine habitat use and seasonal activity patterns of five adult male snakes. Great Plains ratsnakes showed an affinity for human-made structures with the majority of locations in rock structures used to control erosion. When compared to random sites, snake-selected sites were in areas of increased structure with more trees and ground cover and closer to habitat edges. Despite Great Plains ratsnakes having been documented preying on nests of arboreal birds, tracked snakes were found almost exclusively at or below ground level. Snakes were active year round and did not exhibit distinct hibernation times or sites. Snakes exhibited a bimodal pattern of activity with peaks in late spring and autumn, most likely due to temperature constraints. /// La serpiente (Elaphe guttata emoryi) es una especie muy poco conocida de la parte central y sur de los Estados Unidos. Capturamos 24 E. g. emoryi en Fort Hood, Texas, durante 3 aos y usamos radiotelemetra en cinco serpientes macho adultas para determinar su uso de hbitat y su actividad estacional. Las E. g. emoryi mostraron afinidad hacia estructuras hechas por humanos con la mayora de las ubicaciones en estructuras de rocas hechas para el control de erosin. Al comparar con lugares al azar, los lugares elegidos por las serpientes estuvieron en reas con mayor estructura, ms rboles, ms cobertura y las ms cercanas a los bordes de hbitat. A pesar de que E. g. emoryi ha sido documentada acechando a los nidos de pjaros arbreos, las serpientes rastreadas fueron encontradas casi exclusivamente a nivel del suelo o a nivel subterrneo. Las serpientes estuvieron activas todo el ao y no exhibieron lugares o tiempos especficos para invernar. Las serpientes mostraron un tipo de actividad dual con picos al final de la primavera y otoo, lo ms probable debido a restricciones de temperatura.
20424957|Researchers using drift-fence sampling with associated pitfall traps have analyzed a number of problems associated with this technique. One unquantified problem is the effect foraging vertebrate predators might have on animals captured in pitfall traps. We used Deer Cam cameras and track-monitoring stations to estimate amount and variety of vertebrate predators attending pitfall arrays in Bastrop and Guadalupe counties, Texas. We recorded 316 photographs of 19 species of vertebrates over 327 camera days among 16 drift-fence arrays. During 1,838 trap nights, we documented 679 individual track sets at track-monitoring stations established on 50 individual pitfall traps and 8 control plots. Ten potential vertebrate predators were documented visiting pitfall arrays with the raccoon (Procyon lotor) being the most frequently recorded species. Statistical analyses indicate that presence of predators at track-monitoring stations or pitfall traps did not influence detectability or capture success of small vertebrates. However, these results could be confounded by the low effect size and reduced power due to low number of animals captured in pitfall traps during the study. Consistent and frequent visits by predators to pitfall traps indicate that risks exist for confined animals and the potential consequences increase for rare or endangered taxa, which potentially could be exposed to higher levels of predation when confined to pitfall traps. /// Investigadores que usan muestreos de cercas de deriva y trampas de hoyo han analizado algunos problemas con la tcnica. Un problema no cuantificado es el efecto que los vertebrados depredadores pueden tener en los animales capturados en las trampas. Utilizamos cmaras Deer Cam y estaciones de huellas para estimar la cantidad y diversidad de depredadores que visitaron las trampas en los condados de Bastrop y Guadalupe, Texas. Registramos 19 especies de vertebrados en 316 fotografas durante 327 cmara-noches en 16 series de cercas de deriva. Durante 1838 trampa-noches, documentamos 679 juegos de huellas individuales en 50 trampas y en 8 sitios control. Se documentaron 10 depredadores potenciales visitando las trampas, siendo el mapache (Procyon lotor) la especie ms frecuente. El anlisis estadstico indica que la presencia de los depredadores en las trampas o en las estaciones de huellas no afect significativamente a la detectabilidad o al xito de captura de pequeos vertebrados. Sin embargo, estos resultados pueden estar sesgados debido al bajo tamao del efecto y el poder estadstico reducido por la muestra pequea de animales capturados durante el estudio. La frecuente y consistente visita de depredadores a las trampas de hoyo indica un riesgo potencial para los animales capturados. Las posibles consecuencias son ms graves cuando los taxones capturados son raros o estn en peligro de extincin, ya que pueden estar expuestos a niveles mayores de depredacin durante su confinamiento en las trampas.
20424958|The ecology of Lilaeopsis schaffneriana ssp. recurva Apiaceae (Huachuca water umbel), an endangered wetland plant, is poorly understood. In spring 2001, L. schaffneriana ssp. recurva was discovered in two areas in a dense cattail-bulrush marsh at Bingham Cienega Preserve, Pima Co., Arizona, which is located in the floodplain of the middle portion of the San Pedro River, ca. 60 km north of, and 295 m lower in elevation than, all known sites of the subspecies at the time. In autumn 2001, monitoring plots were established within the population at Bingham Cienega Preserve to document phenology and the role of interspecific competition. In one-half of monitoring plots, potentially competitive vegetation was clipped at the ground surface during autumn 2001-autumn 2002. Clipped plots censused in autumn 2001 and spring 2002 had more leaves and produced flowers, whereas no flower was present in control plots. By autumn 2002, however, persistent drought may have caused a decrease in number of leaves of L. schaffneriana ssp. recurva in both control and clipped plots. By late October 2002, all aboveground evidence of plants disappeared and leaves did not reemerge, presumably due to low soil-moisture levels related to severe drought. During the study, we discovered a herbarium specimen that documented L. schaffneriana ssp. recurva ca. 55 km downstream of the study population. More recently, we discovered a new population within the Babocomari River, a major tributary to the upper San Pedro River. These newly documented occurrences verify that L. schaffneriana extends beyond the known area occupied when the plant was listed as endangered, and is not limited to the upper portion of the San Pedro Drainage. /// La ecologa de la umbela acutica de Huachuca (Lilaeopsis schaffneriana ssp. recurva Apiaceae), una planta amenazada del pantano, es poco conocida. En la primavera de 2001, L. schaffneriana ssp. recurva fue descubierta en dos reas de un pantano denso con espadaa-junco en la Bingham Cienega Preserve, condado de Pima, Arizona, ubicado en unos terrenos inundables en la parte media del ro San Pedro, ca. 60 km al norte y 295 m ms bajo en elevacin de que cualquier otro sitio de la especie hasta entonces. En el otoo de 2001, parcelas de monitoreo fueron establecidas dentro de la Bingham Cienega Preserve con el objetivo de documentar la fenologa y el papel de la competencia interespecfica. En la mitad de las parcelas observadas, la vegetacin potencialmente competitiva fue podada a nivel de la superficie del suelo durante el otoo de 2001 hasta el otoo de 2002. Las parcelas podadas censadas en otoo de 2001 y la primavera de 2002 tuvieron ms hojas y produjeron flores, mientras que ninguna flor estuvo presente en las parcelas control. No obstante, para el otoo de 2002, una sequa persistente pudo causar un decremento en el nmero de hojas de L. schaffneriana ssp. recurva en ambas parcelas de tratamiento y de control. Para finales de octubre de 2002, toda la evidencia de plantas en la superficie del terreno desapareci, y las hojas no resurgieron, probablemente debido a los bajos niveles de humedad del suelo a consecuencia de la sequa severa. En el curso del estudio, descubrimos un espcimen de herbario que document L. schaffneriana ssp. recurva ca.55 km ro abajo de la poblacin estudiada. Ms recientemente, descubrimos una nueva poblacin dentro del ro Babocomari, un tributario mayor de la parte superior del ro San Pedro. Estos acontecimientos recin documentados verifican que L. schaffneriana ssp. recurva se extiende ms all de la conocida rea ocupada cuando la planta fue enumerada como amenazada, y que no est limitada a la parte superior de la cuenca San Pedro.
20424959|I compared population trends of 32 species of shrubland and woodland birds generated from 10 years (1995-2004) of point counts on Fort Hood Military Reservation, Texas, with trend data for the same species and time period generated by the Breeding Bird Survey for the entire Edwards Plateau region of Texas. Regardless of scale, most (&gt;90%) species exhibited acceptable population trajectories (i.e., stable or increasing trends). Trend directions were the same at local and regional scales for the majority (62.5%) of species despite differences in land use and management at local and regional scales. Most trend differences were attributable to stable populations on Fort Hood while populations increased on the Edwards Plateau, or vice versa. Stable or increasing population trends for most of the species I examined likely are related to continued or increased availability of woody habitat. Only two species, ladder-backed woodpecker (Picoides scalaris) and field sparrow (Spizella pusilla), exhibited declines at the regional level, possibly due to afforestation or development, which may be cause for concern. Because the population status of many of the species that use woody habitats on the Edwards Plateau appear to be acceptable, greater research and management emphasis should be placed on grassland birds, a group that has experienced substantial declines on the Edwards Plateau and nationally. /// Compar tendencias poblacionales de 32 especies de pjaros de matorrales y bosques provenientes de 10 aos (1995-2004) de muestras de puntos en la reservacin militar Fort Hood, Texas, con datos de tendencia para las mismas especies y los mismos aos provenientes de la Breeding Bird Survey para toda la regin de Edwards Plateau de Texas. Sin importar la escala, la mayora (&gt;90%) de las especies exhibi trayectorias poblacionales aceptables (es decir, estable o con tendencias de aumento). Las direcciones de las tendencias fueron iguales en las escalas locales y regionales para la mayora (62.5%) de las especies a pesar de diferencias en el uso de la tierra y el manejo entre las escalas locales y regionales. La mayora de las diferencias en tendencia fue atribuible a poblaciones estables en Fort Hood mientras que las poblaciones aumentaron en Edwards Plateau, o viceversa. La estabilidad o el aumento de las tendencias poblacionales para la mayora de las especies que examin probablemente est relacionado a la disponibilidad continua o creciente del hbitat arbolado. Solamente dos especies, Picoides scalaris y Spizella pusilla, exhibieron declinaciones a nivel regional, posiblemente debido a la repoblacin forestal o al desarrollo, que pueden ser tema de inquietud. Porque el estado de la poblacin de muchas de las especies que utilizan hbitat arbolado en Edwards Plateau parece aceptable, ms nfasis en la investigacin y en el manejo se debe poner en los pjaros de pastizales, un grupo que ha experimentado declinaciones substanciales en Edwards Plateau y nacionalmente.
20424960|The use of dogs (Canis lupus familiaris) trained to locate wildlife under natural conditions may increase the risk of attracting potential predators or alter behavior of target species. These potentially negative effects become even more problematic when dealing with threatened or endangered species, such as the Mojave Desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii). We addressed three concerns regarding use of dogs trained to locate desert tortoises in the wild. First, we looked at the potential for dogs to attract native and non-native predators to sites at a greater rate than with human visitation alone by comparing presence of predator sign before and after visitation by dogs and by humans. We found no significant difference in predator sign based upon type of surveyor. Second, we looked at the difference in risk of predation to desert tortoises that were located in the wild by humans versus humans with wildlife-detector dogs. Over a 5-week period, during which tortoises were extensively monitored and a subsequent period of 1 year during which tortoises were monitored monthly, there was no predation on, nor sign of predator-inflicted trauma to tortoises initially encountered either by humans or wildlife-detector dogs. Third, we looked at movement patterns of tortoises after encounter by either humans or wildlife-detector dogs. Movement of desert tortoises was not significantly different after being found by a human versus being found by a wildlife-detector dog. Based upon these initial results we conclude that use of trained wildlife-detector dogs to survey for desert tortoises in the wild does not appear to increase attraction of predators, increase risk of predation, or alter movement patterns of desert tortoises more than surveys conducted by humans alone. /// Es posible que el uso de perros entrenados para ubicar la fauna silvestre bajo condiciones naturales aumente el riesgo de atraer depredadores potenciales o que cambie el comportamiento de la especie focal. Estos efectos potencialmente negativos se hacen todava ms problemticos cuando se trabaja con especies amenazadas o en peligro de extincin, como la tortuga del desierto (Gopherus agassizii). Investigamos tres preocupaciones respecto al uso de perros entrenados para encontrar las tortugas del desierto en el campo. Primero, para investigar la posibilidad de que los perros atraigan a depredadores nativos e introducidos a los sitios con mayor rapidez que con visitas humanas solamente, comparamos la presencia de indicios de depredadores antes y despus de la visita por perros y por humanos. No encontramos ninguna diferencia significativa entre los indicios de depredadores basado en el tipo de visita. Segundo, investigamos la diferencia entre el riesgo de depredacin a las tortugas encontradas en la naturaleza por humanos vs. humanos con perros entrenados. En un periodo de cinco semanas durante el cual hubo monitoreo intensivo de las tortugas, y en un periodo siguiente de un ao durante el cual se les observ cada mes, no hubo depredacin ni indicacin de trauma causada por depredadores a las tortugas encontradas inicialmente ya sea por humanos o por perros. Tercero, observamos los patrones de desplazamiento de las tortugas despus de un encuentro con humanos o con perros. No hubo una diferencia significativa entre el movimiento de las tortugas del desierto despus de ser encontradas por perros o por humanos. En virtud de estos resultados iniciales, concluimos que es improbable que el uso de perros para muestrear las tortugas en el campo aumente la atraccin de depredadores o el riesgo de depredacin, o que cambie los patrones de desplazamiento de las tortugas del desierto, en comparacin con muestreos llevados a cabo por humanos solos.
20424961|Data on effects of fire on herpetofauna generally are lacking. With increased use of prescribed fire to manage rangelands in South Texas for wildlife and livestock, a better understanding of effects of fire on the herpetofauna is needed. We investigated effects of combinations of winter and summer prescribed fire on rangeland sites on the Chaparral Wildlife Management Area in southern Texas. Dormant-season fires had little effect on diversity and abundance of the herpetofauna. Inclusion of growing-season fire into the burning regime tended to increase diversity and abundance of grassland species, such as the six-lined racerunner (Cnemidophorus sexlineatus). Although our experimental design limits interpretation of results to the study site, our data suggest that prescribed fire may be used to manage rangelands in South Texas without negative affects on the herpetofauna. A varied burning regime is recommended to increase herpetofaunal diversity. /// Informacin sobre el efecto del fuego en la herpetofauna generalmente es muy escueta. Con el aumento del uso de quemas prescritas para manejar pastizales del sur de Texas para la fauna silvestre y el ganado domstico es necesario tener un mejor entendimiento del efecto del fuego en la herpetofauna. Investigamos el efecto de combinaciones de quemas prescritas de invierno y de verano en sitios del Chaparral Wildlife Management Area en el sur de Texas. Las quemas conducidas durante la estacin latente tuvieron muy poco efecto en la diversidad y abundancia de los reptiles. La diversidad y abundancia de las especies de pastizal como la lagartija Cnemidophorus sexlineatus tendieron a aumentar con la adicin de quemas durante la temporada de crecimiento. Aunque nuestro diseo experimental limita la interpretacin de resultados al rea de estudio, los datos sugieren que las quemas prescritas realizadas en terrenos del sur de Texas pueden ser implementadas sin efectos negativos en la herpetofauna. Se recomienda utilizar un rgimen de quemas variado para aumentar la diversidad de la herpetofauna.
20424962|Abstract--The endangered bonytail Gila elegans, a large-bodied, main-stem cyprinid endemic to the Colorado River Basin of the American Southwest, was once widespread and abundant in warm-waterstream reaches. Negative effects of altered flow and temperature regimes downstream of dams, other habitat changes, and establishment of nonnative fishes have reduced populations of native fish throughout the basin, and wild bonytails may be extirpated. Hatchery reared bonytails are stocked in formerly occupied habitat to rebuild depleted populations, but their ecology is poorly understood. In 2002-2007, sampling in the middle Green River from upstream and downstream of stocking locations in Dinosaur National Monument documented survival of bonytails for 4 months, but apparently none survived longer. Many fish at large 4 months had Lernea or fungal infections, weighed an average of 20% less than fish when released, and had relatively low rates of growth. Post-stocking rates of dispersal downstream (ca. 1 river km/day) were considerable, and potentially, biologically significant. Bonytails occupied pools, eddies, runs, backwaters, and riffles, and co-occurred in eddies with the roundtail chub Gila robusta and humpback chub Gila cypha in Whirlpool Canyon. We also documented two instances of predation by smallmouth bass Micropterus dolomieu on bonytails 225 mm in total length. Reduced predation by large-bodied, nonnative, piscivores and increased resistance to disease and other stressors that reduce body condition may increase survival of stocked bonytails in this portion of the Green River. Alternative stocking strategies, including use of alluvial and floodplain areas, and effects of size on survival, are being evaluated. /// El charalito elegante Gila elegans, ciprnido de tamao grande, de las corrientes principales, en peligro de extincin, y endmico de la cuenca del ro Colorado del sudoeste de Estados Unidos, fue una vez comn y ampliamente distribuido en las secciones clidas del ro. Los efectos negativos del flujo y temperatura alterados ro abajo de las presas, otros cambios en el hbitat, y el establecimiento de peces no nativos, han reducido las poblaciones de peces nativos en todo el cauce, y puede ser que el charalito elegante silvestre sea extirpado. En el hbitat antes ocupado por ellos, se liberan charalitos elegantes de criadero para fortalecer las poblaciones disminuidas, pero de su ecologa se entiende poco. Muestreos de la parte intermedia del ro Green, de 2002 a 2007, ro arriba y ro abajo de los puntos de liberacin en el Dinosaur National Monument, documentaron la supervivencia del charalito elegante por hasta cuatro meses, pero aparentemente ninguno sobrevivi ms tiempo. Muchos peces de hasta cuatro meses de ser liberados tenan Lernea sp. o infecciones de hongos, pesaban un promedio de 20% menos que cuando fueron liberados, y tenan tasas de crecimiento relativamente bajas. Se documentaron tasas de dispersin post-liberacin ro abajo de hasta un kilmetro/da. Los charalitos elegantes ocuparon pozas, remolinos, correderas, remansos y rpidos, y convivieron con el charalito aleta redonda Gila robusta y con el charalito jorobado Gila cypha en los remolinos en el can Whirlpool. Tambin documentamos dos casos de depredacin por la lobina de boca pequea (Micropterus dolomieu) de los charalitos elegantes de hasta 225 mm de longitud total. La depredacin reducida por parte de piscvoros no nativos de tamao grande, y la resistencia incrementada a la enfermedad y otros factores de presin que reducen las condiciones corporales, pueden incrementar la supervivencia del charalito elegante en esta parte del ro Green. Se estn evaluando estrategias de liberacin alternativas, incluso el uso de reas aluviales y de tierra baja sujeta a inundaciones, y el efecto del tamao de los peces en su supervivencia.
20424963|We studied germinable seed banks in soil associated with grasslands, relatively young (&lt;40 years) Juniperus ashei (Ashe juniper), and long-established Quercus virginiana var. fusiformis (plateau live oak) patches of woody plants in a central-Texas savanna to ascertain the degree to which Ashe juniper alters the seed bank of sites previously inhabited by grassland vegetation, and to assess how seed banks differ beneath two common types of patches associated with woody plants in this savanna ecosystem. Across all habitats and over an annual growth cycle, 3,364 seedlings representing 116 species emerged from these seed banks. Annual forbs were the dominant life form in all habitats (62% of seedlings). The fraction of perennial forb and graminoid seedlings was comparable (19 versus 18%, respectively), and seedlings of woody plants were rare. Density, diversity, and species composition of seed banks varied significantly among the three habitats. Seed banks in grassland and live oak were most dissimilar, and seed banks of Ashe juniper were intermediate in species composition. Early-to-mid-successional species present in grasslands were absent from seed banks of Ashe juniper. Late-successional species of grasses were either absent or few in the seed bank in all habitats. Results indicate that occupation of grasslands by Ashe juniper alters seed banks after a relatively short time, and these changes are distinct from patches of woody plants that have a long-term history of occupation of sites. Approaches to restoration of grasslands that involve removal of Ashe juniper alone cannot rely on the soil seed bank for rapid reestablishment of climax grassland communities. /// Estudiamos el banco de semillas viables en suelo asociado con pastizal, rboles relativamente jvenes (&lt;40 aos) de Juniperus ashei, y parches de plantas leosas y bien establecidos rboles de Quercus virginiana var. fusiformis (en una sabana del centro de Texas para certificar el grado hasta el cual J. ashei altera el banco de semillas de sitios que previamente contaban con vegetacin del pastizal, y para evaluar cmo el banco de semillas se distingue bajo dos parches comunes y arbolados en este ecosistema de la sabana. En todos los hbitats y durante un ciclo anual de crecimiento, 3,364 plntulas representando 116 especies emergieron de estos bancos de semillas. Hierbas anuales fueron la forma vital que dominaron en todos los hbitats (62% de las plntulas). La fraccin de plntulas de hierbas perennes y de graminoides fue comparable (19 versus 18%, respectivamente), y plntulas de especies leosas fueron raras. La densidad, la diversidad y la composicin de especies del banco de semillas variaron significativamente entre los tres hbitats. Los bancos de semillas de pastizal y de Q. virginiana var. fusiformis fueron los menos semejantes, y el banco de semillas de J. ashei fue intermedio en la composicin de las especies. Especies sucesorias tempranas-a-medias de praderas estuvieron ausentes del banco de semillas del J. ashei. Especies sucesorias tardas se encontraron ausentes o limitadas en el banco de semillas en todos los hbitats. Los resultados indican que la ocupacin de praderas por parte de J. ashei altera los bancos de semillas despus de relativamente poco tiempo, y estos cambios son distintos en reas arboladas que tienen una historia alargo plazo de ocupacin del sitio. El planeamiento de restaurar prados que involucra solamente la remocin de J. ashei no puede respaldarse en los bancos de semillas viables para el rpido reestablecimiento de comunidades pastorales de clmax.
20424964|Records of coyotes (Canis latrans) from Guatemala are based mostly on observational records. We review existing literature for coyotes in Guatemala and report the first specimen from this country. /// Los registros de coyote (Canis latrans) para Guatemala estn basados principalmente en observaciones. Hacemos una revisin de la literatura existente para coyotes de Guatemala y reportamos el primer espcimen para este pas.
20424965|We explored use of non-invasive track and camera surveys to provide baseline information on distribution, activity, and habitat associations of mammalian carnivores within the Chiricahua and Peloncillo mountains of southeastern Arizona. In total, track and camera stations recorded 241 and 149 detections, respectively, of carnivores and other vertebrates in both mountain ranges. In order of frequency of detections, we recorded gray foxes (112 track and camera detections), white-nosed coatis (33), large skunks (25), ringtails (13), domestic dogs (13), coyotes (9), cougars (7), bobcats (3), and western spotted skunks (2) in both the Chiricahua and Peloncillo mountains, and one American black bear was photographed in the Chiricahua mountains. Other vertebrates detected included cattle (12), deer (10), and a variety of small rodents (83), birds (33), lizards (22), and lagomorphs (12). The combination of track and camera data were effective at detecting a variety of species in a range of habitat types, and emphasized the importance of deciduous riparian habitat for carnivores as well as other vertebrates. /// Exploramos el uso de registro de huellas y foto-trampeo como tcnicas no invasivas para proveer informacin bsica sobre la distribucin, actividad, y asociaciones de hbitat de mamferos carnvoros en las montaas Chiricahua y Peloncillo del sureste de Arizona. En total, en las estaciones de huellas y de cmaras, se obtuvieron 241 y 149 registros de carnvoros y otros vertebrados, respectivamente, en las dos sierras. Con respecto al orden de frecuencia de deteccin, registramos 112 zorros grises entre huellas y fotos, coates (33), zorrillos grandes (25), cacomixtles (13), perros domsticos (13), coyotes (9), pumas (7), gatos monteses (3), y zorrillos manchados (2) en las montaas Chiricahua y Peloncillo, y un oso negro fue fotografiado en las montaas Chiricahua. Otros vertebrados detectados incluyeron ganado (12), venados (10), y varias especies de roedores (83), aves (33), lagartijas (22) y lagomorfos (12). La combinacin de datos de huellas y de fotografas fue efectiva en detectar una variedad de especies en distintos tipos de hbitat, y enfatiz la importancia del hbitat ripario caducifolio tanto para los carnvoros como para otros vertebrados.
20424966|We present here the first record of the velvety fruit-eating bat (Enchistenes hartii; Phyllostomidae) for the state of Morelos, Mexico. Our record gives more insight into the range of the species in Mexico, extending it ca. 52 km into central Mexico, east of the closest reported locality, Malinaltenango, in the state of Mxico. We provide external and cranial measurements of one individual, and information about the habitat where it was captured and other species of bats recorded at the same locality. /// Reportamos el primer registro del murcilago frutero oscuro (Enchistenes hartii; Phyllostomidae) para el estado de Morelos, Mxico. Nuestro registro ayuda a determinar el rango de distribucin de la especie en Mxico y extiende su rango de distribucin por ca. 52 km hacia el centro del pas, al este de Malinaltenango, Estado de Mxico, la localidad de registro reportada ms cercana. Proporcionamos medidas externas y craneales de un individuo, e informacin sobre el hbitat en el que lo capturamos y de otras especies de murcilagos capturadas en la misma localidad.
20424967|We evaluated breeding season and breeding behavior of two populations (Los Angeles and La Perforadora) of the Mexican prairie dog (Cynomys mexicanus) in northeastern Mexico during January-June 2002 and 2003. We observed 18 coteries in each colony. The breeding season began at the end of January and extended into late April for both colonies. Males were sexually active January-March, and females were in estrus in early March. However, 7 and 10 mature females in La Perforadora and Los Angeles, respectively, underwent estrus in mid-February. Gestation lasted from early March to early April, parturition occurred in early April, and weaning occurred in late April. Infanticide was not observed. Mature females and dominant males of each coterie cut fresh vegetation, possibly for construction of the nest inside the burrow. A series of sexual-mounting exercises occurred outside burrows between young of the same coterie. We describe fights that occurred frequently between adults after the young emerged from their burrows. /// Evaluamos la poca reproductiva y el comportamiento reproductivo de dos poblaciones (en Los ngeles y La Perforadora) del perrito llanero mexicano (Cynomys mexicanus) en el noreste de Mxico durante enero a junio del 2002 y 2003. Observamos un total de 18 clanes para cada colonia. La poca reproductiva comenz a finales de enero y se extendi hasta finales de abril para ambas colonias. Los machos estuvieron sexualmente activos de enero a marzo, y las hembras estuvieron en estro a principios de marzo. Sin embargo, 7 y 10 hembras adultas en la Perforadora y Los ngeles, respectivamente, entraron en estro a mediados de febrero. La gestacin abarc desde principios de marzo a principios de abril, el parto ocurri a principios de abril, y el destete a finales de abril. No se observ infanticidio. Las hembras adultas y los machos dominantes de cada clan cortaron vegetacin fresca, posiblemente para la construccin del nido dentro de la madriguera. Ocurrieron una serie de ejercicios de monta entre cras del mismo clan afuera de las madrigueras. Describimos peleas que ocurrieron frecuentemente entre adultos despus de que las cras emergieron de sus madrigueras.
20424968|Texas has five species of alderflies (Sialis). A key to adult males and females and their known distributions in the state is presented. New county records are included, as well as the first state record of Sialis vagans (Ross). /// En Texas se conocen cinco especies de silidos (Sialis). Se presenta una clave para machos y hembras adultos, as como su distribucin estatal. Tambin se incluyen registros nuevos para varios condados y el primer registro estatal de Sialis vagans (Ross).
20424969|The Iowa darter (Etheostoma exile) was first captured in Little Yampa Canyon, Yampa River, Colorado, by electrofishing in autumn 2003, and abundance of this nonnative species increased during 2004-2007. The Iowa darter also expanded downstream 229 river km, based on captures of young fish in a drift net at the confluence of the Yampa and Green rivers in 2005, and in light traps in the Green River near Jensen, Utah, in 2005-2007. Likely introduction of the Iowa darter via bait-bucket transfer suggests that additional legal deterrents might be needed to reduce further illicit introductions of potentially problematic nonnative fishes in the Colorado River Basin. /// El Etheostoma exile fue capturado por primera vez en Little Yampa Canyon, ro Yampa, Colorado, mediante electropesca durante el otoo del 2003, y la abundancia de esta especie no nativa se increment durante 2004-2007. El E. exile tambin se expandi ro abajo 229 km, basado en capturas de peces juveniles en una red de arrastre en la confluencia de los ros Yampa y Green en 2005, y en trampas de luz en el ro Green cerca de Jensen, Utah, durante 2005-2007. La probable introduccin de E. exile va traslado de cebo sugiere que elementos disuasivos legales adicionales podrn ser necesarios para reducir introducciones ilcitas de peces no nativos potencialmente problemticas en la cuenca del ro Colorado.
20424970|We document the jaguar (Panthera onca) in the Sierra Nanchititla (state of Mexico) in pine-oak forest. During October 2002-December 2004, we determined presence of jaguars using three methods: we conducted interviews in local communities, collected scats, and installed automated-camera detection systems. Although no jaguar was mentioned in 86 interviews, three photographs of a male were obtained, and 10 of 132 scats were attributed to P. onca. This represents the first record of P. onca in central Mexico within the Balsas River macro-basin. /// Documentamos la presencia de jaguar (Panthera onca) en la Sierra Nanchititla (estado de Mxico) en bosque de pino-encino. De octubre 2002 a diciembre 2004, evaluamos la presencia del jaguar usando tres mtodos: condujimos entrevistas en comunidades locales, colectamos excrementos, e instalamos sistemas automticos de deteccin fotogrfica. Aunque en 86 entrevistas no se mencionaron jaguares, obtuvimos tres fotografas de un macho y 10 de 132 excrementos fueron atribuibles a P. onca. Este representa el primer registro de P. onca en el centro de Mxico dentro de la macrocuenca del ro Balsas.
20424971|Morpho polyphemus, a butterfly whose geographic and temporal distribution in Mexico is relatively well known, is reported for the first time from the state of Zacatecas. This species was observed at El Mezquital, on both sides of a river with riparian subtropical vegetation. /// Se registra por primera vez para del estado de Zacatecas Morpho polyphemus, un lepidptero que en Mxico es relativamente bien conocida su distribucin geogrfica y temporal, de la localidad El Mezquital, a los dos lados de un ro con vegetacin riparia subtropical.
40263660|Several aspects of the ecology of coyotes (Canis latrans) have been studied in cities (i. e., diet, use and selection of habitat, movements), but additional knowledge will assist persons that are responsible for management of urban predators. We studied coyotes in central Tucson, Pima Co., Arizona, during November 2005-November 2006. Our objectives were to monitor radiocollared coyotes to determine size of home range, to ascertain use of habitat based on land-use categories and movements, and to describe a den of urban coyotes. Average size of home range calculated using the 95% fixed-kernel method was 26.8  5.1 SEkm for resident coyotes. Overall, land categories used most often were washes, medium-density residential areas, and low-density residential areas. Movements were <520 m/h within land-use categories used most often during day and night (i. e., medium-density residential areas and washes) and >800 m/h in areas that were used most during the night (i. e., highdensity residential and commercial areas). Coyotes were able to meet their life-history requirements in central Tucson likely due to available resources and a diversity of land-use categories, especially washes. /// Varios aspectos de la ecologa de los coyotes (Canis latrans) han sido estudiados en las ciudades (por ejemplo, su dieta, uso y seleccin del hbitat, movimientos), sin embargo informacion adicional puede ayudar a las personas responsables del manejo de depredadores urbanos. Estudiamos a los coyotes en el rea central de Tucson, condado de Pima, Arizona, desde noviembre del 2005 hasta noviembre del 2006. Nuestro objetivo fue monitorear coyotes con radio-collares para determinar el tamao del rango del hogar, para confirmar el uso del hbitat basado en categoras de uso de tierra y movimientos, y para describir una guarida de coyotes urbanos. El tamao promedio del rango del hogar estimado para coyotes residentes, usando el mtodo de "fixed- kernel" al 95%, fue 26.8  5.1 ES km. En general, las reas mayormente seleccionadas fueron los arroyos secos y las reas residenciales con densidad poblacional media y baja. Los movimientos fueron <520 m/h en las reas que los coyotes utilizaron mayormente durante el da y la noche (por ejemplo las reas de densidad residencial media y los arroyos secos) y>800 m/h en reas que fueron usadas ms durante la noche (por ejemplo reas de alta densidad residencial y comercial). Los coyotes fueron capaces de suplir sus requisitos de vida en el centro de Tucson probablemente debido a los recursos disponibles y a la diversidad de categorias del uso de tierra, especialmente los arroyos secos.
40263661|Assessing numerical response of northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) to habitat improvement in semi-arid rangeland often is confounded by responses of populations to highly variable patterns of rainfall. During 2 years of above-average rainfall, we investigated abundance of northern bobwhites relative to type of range and treatments to reduce brush on seven ranches in southern Texas. We expected response of populations to treatment of land to be more evident when northern bobwhites were released from constraints of low precipitation. However, main factors dominating abundance were rainfall during the previous growing season and type of range. Greatest numbers of calls were in midproductivity rangeland (potential production of forage 2,000-3,900 kg/ha), especially sandy loam, clay loam, sandy, and gravelly ridge. Treatments to reduce brush increased abundance of northern bobwhites to a limited extent and were most effective when large blocks of land were treated. Techniques that kill brush (root-plowing) were more successful in increasing populations than topremoval methods (roller-chopping). Leaving strips or mottes (large clumps of living brush and trees) in cleared areas did not enhance populations, although we caution that retaining some brush cover may be important to survival of northern bobwhites in drier years and in situations where herbaceous cover is less abundant. /// Determinar la respuesta numrica de codornices norteas (Colinus virginianus) a tcnicas para mejorar el hbitat en pastizales semiridos es confundido por las respuestas poblacionales a patrones altamente variables de precipitacin. Durante dos aos de precipitacin mas alta que la media, investigamos la abundancia de codornices con respecto al tipo de pastizal y tratamientos para reducir arbustos en siete ranchos en el sur de Texas. Esperamos la respuesta de la poblacin al tratamiento de la tierra ser ms evidente cuando las codornices fueron liberadas de los apremios de baja precipitacin. Sin embargo, los factores ms dominantes para determinar la abundancia fueron la precipitacin durante la estacin de crecimiento anterior y el tipo de pastizal. Ms silbidos fueron registrados en los pastizales de productividad mediana (produccin de forraje potencial de 2.000-3.900 kg/ha), especialmente en pastizales con suelos marga-arenosos, marga-arcillosos, arenosos, y pastizales en bordes pedregosos. Tratamientos para reducir arbustos aumentaron la abundancia de codornices a un grado limitado y fueron ms eficaces cuando terrenos grandes fueron tratados. Los tratamientos de remocin de arbustos (remocin de races) fueron ms exitosos para incrementar la poblacin que los mtodos de remocin superior (la eliminatin de biomasa area). Dejando bandas o grandes grupos de arbustos y rboles en reas despejadas no mejor las poblaciones, aunque consideramos importante indicar que retener alguna cobertura arbustiva podra ser importante para la supervivencia de codornices en aos ms secos y en situaciones donde la cobertura herbcea es menor.
40263662|We studied 403 colonies of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) in a 28,927-km , 12-county area of the southern High Plains, and we examined the distribution, area of colonies, size of populations, and association of these colonies with playa lakes. We used visual counts and estimated size of populations based on modeling of the proportion of a population of prairie dogs above ground at the times of surveys. Colonies in the southern High Plains were small (median = 8.8 ha), with generally small populations (median = 68), and average densities of 14  22 prairie dogs/ha. Colonies were closer to playa lakes than would be expected by chance (P < 0.001), with 40% of colonies built in the basin, slopes, or both, of playa lakes compared to only 3% of 1,000 random points. The association of prairie dogs with playa lakes in the heavily cultivated area of the southern High Plains suggests that playas are a major portion of the habitat of black-tailed prairie dogs in the region. Estudiamos 403 colonias de perros de la pradera cola negra (Cynomys ludovicianus) en una area de 28,927 km en 12 condados en las Altas Planicies meridionales, y examinamos la distributin, el rea de las colonias, el tamao de las poblaciones, y la asociacin de las colonias con los lagos efimeros. Contamos visualmente y estimamos el tamao de las poblaciones basados en modelos de la proportin de una poblacion de perros de la pradera sobre el suelo durante la hora de los muestreos. Las colonias de perros de la pradera fueron pequeas (promedio = 8.8 ha), con poblaciones generalmente pequenas (promedio = 68) y una densidad promedio de 14  22 perros de la paradera por ha. Las colonias se encontraron significativamente cerca de los lagos efimeros (P < 0.001), con 40% de las colonias construidas en la cuenca o en las pendientes de los lagos efimeros, o en ambas, comparadas con solamente 3% de 1,000 puntos aleatorios. La asociacin de los perros de la pradera con los lagos efimeros en la region con mucha agricultura en las Altas Planicies meridionales sugiere que los lagos efimeros son una parte importante del hbitat de los perros de la pradera en la regin.
40263663|The calling song of the cicada Beameria venosa is a continuous train of sound pulses produced at a rate of 385  29.5 pulses/s, with peak energy at 16.96  1.76 kHz. The long-range sound field of B. venosa is symmetrical, but modified by interaction with vegetation and wind in the environment. High frequency of the call of B. venosa has a selective advantage with respect to avoidance of predators, permitting this cicada to be unnoticed by predators, principally birds and lizards, which cannot hear the call. As a result, the predation pressure on this cicada is decreased. /// Se describe la cancion de llamada emitida por la chicharra Beameria venosa. Este sonido es producido como un tren continuo de pulsos con una frecuencia de 385  29.5 pulsos por segundo, que alcanzan una energa mxima de 16.96  1.76 kHz. El rea de alcance del sonido de llamada de B. venosa es simtrica, pero es modificada por la interaccin con la vegetacin y el viento del ambiente. La alta frecuencia del canto de llamada de B. venosa le confiere una ventaja selectiva, permitiendole a esta chicharra pasar inadvertida y evitar sus depredadores, principalimente aves y lagartijas, que no pueden oir la llamada. Como consecuencia de sto, la presin depredadora se encuentra disminuda en esta chicharra.
40263664|The New Mexico meadow jumping mouse (Zapus hudsonius luteus) is endemic to riparian habitats in the American Southwest. We evaluated current status and habitat of this species in the jemez and Sacramento mountains, New Mexico. We compiled historical capture localities and conducted field surveys at historical and potential new localities during 2005 and 2006. We did not find the species or its habitat at 73% of historical localities surveyed in the Jemez Mountains and 94% of historical localities surveyed in the Sacramento Mountains. It persisted in two drainages (five localities) in the Jemez Mountains and two small, isolated localities in the Sacramento Mountains. Zapus h. luteus was associated with tall, dense, herbaceous riparian vegetation, especially areas dominated by sedges. The lower bound to the 95% confidence interval for vertical cover at localities where Z. h. luteus was captured was 63 cm. Decline in distribution was due to loss of this habitat, primarily as a result of livestock grazing. However, drought, development, recreation, forest fire, and loss of the American beaver (Castor canadensis) also contributed. We recommend that conservation of Z. h. luteus vAW require establishment of refugial areas of suitable habitat through protection from livestock grazing. /// EL ratn Zapus hudsonius luteus es endmico de hbitats riparios en el suroeste de los Estados Unidos. Evaluamos el estatus y hbitat en la actualidad de esta especie en las mon tanas Jemez y Sacramento en Nuevo Mxico. Compilamos las localidades histricas de la captura e hicimos muestreos de campo en sitios histricos y en otros lugares probables durante 2005 y 2006. No encontramos la especie en su hbitat en 73% de las localidades histricas muestreadas en las montaas Jemez ni en 94% de las localidades en las montaas Sacramento. Persisti en dos desages (cinco localidades) en las montanas Jemez y en dos localidades pequeas y aisladas en las montaas Sacramento. Zapus h. luteus fue asociado con la vegetatin riberen, herbcea, densa y alta, especialmente en reas dominadas por juncias. El limite inferior del intervalo de la confianza 95% para la cubierta vertical en las localidades donde Z. h. luteus fue capturado fue 63 cm. La disminucin en su distributin fue debido a la prdida de este hbitat, principalmente a consecuencia de pastoreo de ganado. Sin embargo, la sequa, el desarrollo, la recreatin, el incendio forestal, y la prdida del castor (Castor canadensis) contribuyeron tambin. Recomendamos que la conservatin de Z. h. luteus requerir establecimiento de reas conservadas con hbitat adecuado y protegido del pastoreo de ganado.
40263665|Sonoran pronghorns (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis) have been listed as endangered since 1967, yet relatively little is known about their behavior. Knowledge of behavior is essential to understanding their ecology, but these data are difficult to obtain for Sonoran pronghorns due to landuse restrictions and large, inaccessible range. However, with establishment of a semi-captive breeding facility (260 ha) for Sonoran pronghorns in southern Arizona, behavioral studies are feasible. We studied diurnal activity budgets of six adult female Sonoran pronghorns during January-December 2005 by recording behavior (i. e., foraging, bedding, standing, traveling, other) with instantaneous sampling at 2-min intervals. We observed pronghorns on 148 days during the year for a total of 49,035 observations. Pronghorns exhibited seasonal and diurnal differences in activity budgets. Behavior was constrained by temperature in spring and summer, and by availability of forage in autumn. These data are the first regarding detailed behavior of Sonoran pronghorns and are valuable to their management and conservation by providing more information on constraints faced by the subspecies. /// El berrendo sonorense (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis) ha sido catalogado como una especie en peligro de extincin desde 1967, aunque existe poca informacin sobre su comportamiento. El conocimiento de su comportamiento es fundamental para comprender su ecologa, pero la informacin requerida es dificil de conseguir para el berrendo sonorense debido a restricciones al uso de terreno y la vasta e inaccesible rea que ocupa. Sin embargo, el establecimiento de una instalacin para su crianza en conditin semi-cautiva (260 ha) en el sur de Arizona hace factible los estudios sobre su comportamiento. Estudiamos las actividades diurnas de seis hembras adultas desde enero hasta diciembre del 2005, registrando su comportamiento (i. e., forrajeando, echadas, de pie, viajando y otras actividades) con muestras instantneas a intervalos de 2 minutos. Observamos a los berrendos 148 das a travs del ao para un total de 49,035 observaciones. El berrendo exhibio diferencias diurnas y estacionales en sus actividades. En la primavera y el verano su comportamiento fue restringido por la temperatura, y en el otoo fue restringido por la disponibilidad del forraje. Estos datos son el primer registro detallado del comportamiento del berrendo sonorense y tiene un valor para su manejo y conservatin al proveer ms informacin en los limites que desafia la subespecie.
40263666|The minimum length of stem required for production of flowers in the C desert shrub ocotillo (Fouquieria splendens) has been widely accepted as 1 m since 1943. Long-term studies in the Chihuahuan Desert indicate that this threshold is no longer acceptable. During 2003-2006, 15 ocotillo stems shorter than 1 m produced 1-32 flowers each. The shortest stem on which flowers were produced was 62 cm long. Although fully capable of producing flowers, the contribution of stems <1 m long to overall production of flowers was small, accounting for only 0.49% of all flower-bearing stems. Stems <1 m long can no longer be excluded from studies of allocation to reproduction in ocotillo because of their assumed inability to produce flowers. /// La longitud mnima de tallo requerida para la produccin de flores en el arbusto desrtico C ocotillo (Fouquieria splendens) ha sido ampliamente aceptada como 1 m desde 1943. Estudios a largo plazo en el desierto chihuahuense indican que este lmite ya no es vlido. Durante 2003-2006, 15 tallos de ocotillo de menos de 1 m produjeron de 1 a 32 flores cada uno. El tallo ms corto en el cual se produjeron flores fue de 62 cm de largo. Aunque totalmente capaces de producir flores, la contributin de tallos de <1 m de largo a la produccin total de flores fue pequea, representando slo el 0.49% de todos los tallos con flores. Tallos <1 m de longitud ya no podrn ser excluidos en estudios relacionados con la energa destinada a la reproductin en ocotillo por su supuesta incapacidad de producir flores.
40263667|We studied effects of parasitism by brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater) on three frequent hosts from a pinyon-juniper (Pinus-Juniperus) community in New Mexico. During 1993-1999 and 2001-2002, we measured frequencies of parasitism and examined how differences in size of host, life-history traits, and behavior, as well as aspects of behavior of brown-headed cowbirds (i. e., removal of eggs of host and multiple parasitism), influenced reproductive success of blue-gray gnatcatchers (Polioptila caerulea), plumbeous vireos (Vireo plumbeus), and western tanagers (Piranga ludovidana). Brown-headed cowbirds parasitized 79% of 288 nests of blue-gray gnatcatchers, 84% of 170 nests of plumbeous vireos, and 76% of 129 nests of western tanagers. Parasitism reduced productivity of hosts through removal of eggs, reduced hatching success, reduced survival of nestlings, and desertion of nest. Relative to unparasitized nests, size of clutch of singly parasitized nests was reduced, on average, by 0.3 eggs for the plumbeous vireo and by 0.8 eggs for the two other species. Both blue-gray gnatcatchers and plumbeous vireos rarely fledged any of their own young from parasitized nests, whereas western tanagers did so regularly. All three species deserted some nests in association with parasitism, but the primary response to parasitism was acceptance of eggs from brown-headed cowbirds. Multiple parasitism was common, however, mean number of young of hosts that fledged only differed between singly and multiply parasitized nests for the western tanager due to high costs of single parasitism for the blue-gray gnatcatcher and plumbeous vireo. Overall, costs of parasitism were negatively correlated to body size of host; parasitism caused failure of 58% of nests of blue-gray gnatcatchers, 49% of nests of plumbeous vireos, and 22% of nests of western tanagers. /// Estudiamos los efectos de parasitismo de tordo negro (Molothrus ater) en tres frecuentes anfitriones de una comunidad de enebro-pinon (Pinus-Juniperus) en Nuevo Mexico. Durante 1993-1999 y 2001-2002, medimos las frecuencias de parasitismo y examinamos las diferencias en el tamao del huesped, las caracteristicas de la historia de vida, y el comportamiento, tambin los aspectos del comportamiento de los tordos negros (por ej., retiro de huevos de los anfitriones y parasitismo mltiple), exito reproductivo influenciado por perlita comn (Polioptila caerulea), vireo plomizo (Vireo plumbeus), y tngara capucha roja (Piranga ludovidana). Los tordos parasitaron 79% de 288 nidos de perlita comun, 84% de 170 nidos de vireo, y 76% de 129 nidos de tngara. El parasitismo redujo la productividad de los anfitriones por medio del retiro de huevos, reduccin del xito para eclosionar, reduccin de la supervivencia de polluelos, y desercin del nido. Con respecto a nidos no parasitados, el tamano de la puesta con un solo parasito fue reducido, en promedio, 0.3 huevos para el vireo y 0.8 para las otras dos especies. Ambos perlita comn y vireo plomizo raramente criaron volantones en nidos parasitados mientras que tngara lo hizo regularmente. Las tres especies abandonaron algunos nidos parasitados, pero la repuesta principal a parasitismo fue aceptacin de los huevos del tordo negro. Mltiple parasitismo fue com, sin embargo el nero medio de polluelos del anfitrin que salieron solamente se diferenci entre nidos con un solo o mtiples parsitos de tangara debido al alto costo de un solo parsito para perlita comn y vireo plomizo. En general, los costos del parasitismo se correlacionaron negativamente al tamao corporal del anfitrin; el parasitismo caus el fracaso de 58% de los nidos de perlita comun, 49% de los nidos de vireo, y 22% de los nidos de tngara.
40263668|Much of the historic habitat of the red-billed pigeon (Patagioenas flavirostris) in southern Texas has been lost to agriculture, urban expansion, and changes in water flow in the Rio Grande. Populations in Texas have been declining since the 1920s. Our objectives were to quantify vegetational parameters in areas along the Rio Grande where red-billed pigeons were observed breeding and areas where they were not observed breeding. We conducted our study May-September, 2000 and 2001, along 30-km of the Rio Grande below Falcon Lake Dam in southern Texas. We used line-intercept transects to collect vegetational data in three areas where breeding activity was observed and in three areas where breeding activity was not observed. We compared length of transect, height of plants, width of canopy, density of plants, relative density of plants, and percent ground cover among and within areas. We also tested for relationships between height of trees and width of canopy. Height of trees and width of canopy were greater in breeding areas. The riparian zone was wider in breeding areas and there was greater heterogeneity in length of riparian zone within non-breeding areas. Breeding areas had high importance values for Mexican ash (Fraxinus berlandieriana) , willow (Salix nigra), and Texas ebony (Pithocellobium ebano), and a low value for honey mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa). Mature stands of riparian habitat appeared to be favored by breeding red-billed pigeons. However, this habitat is declining along the Rio Grande and more information is needed to aid conservation efforts for this species in the United States. /// La mayor parte del habitat histrico de la paloma morada (Patagioenas flavirostris) en el sur de Texas se ha perdido por la agricultura, la expansin urbana y los cambios del flujo del agua en el rio Grande. Poblaciones en Texas han estado disminuyendo desde la dcada de 1920. Nuestros objetivos fueron cuantificar los parmetros de vegetacin a lo largo del ro Grande en reas donde palomas moradas fueron observadas reproducindose y en reas donde no se report su reproduccin. Condujimos el estudio entre mayo y septiembre del 2000 y del 2001, a lo largo de una seccin de 30 km del ro Grande debajo de Falcon Lake Dam en el sur de Texas. Usamos transectos de linea-intercepcin para recoger datos de la vegetacin en tres reas donde se observo actividad reproductiva, y en tres reas donde no se observ actividad reproductiva. Comparamos la longitud de los transectos, la altura de la vegetacion, el ancho del dosel, la densidad vegetal, la densidad relativa vegetal y el porcentaje de cobertura de suelo en y entre reas. Tambin probamos relaciones entre la ltura de los arboles y el ancho del dosel. La altura de los arboles y el ancho del dosel fueron mayores en las reas de reproduccion. La zona riparia fue ms ancha en reas de reproduccin y hubo mayor heterogeneidad en la longitud de la zona riparia en las reas no reproductoras. Las reas de reproduccin tuvieron altos valores importantes de fresno (Fraxinus berlandieriana), de sauce (Salix nigra), y de bano (Pithocellobium ebano), y un valor bajo para mezquite (Prosopis glandulosa). Los parches maduros de hbitat ripario parecen ser favorecidos por palomas moradas en reproduccin. Sin embargo, este hbitat est declinando a lo largo del ri Grande y ms informacin es necesaria para ayudar en los esfuerzos de conservatin de esta especie en los Estados Unidos.
40263669|We describe the first occurrence of the extinct dire wolf, Cants dims, from the late Pleistocene deposits of east-central Sonora, Mexico. Remains include a partially complete left mandible and a left distal fragment of humerus collected from the deposits at Terapa. Local environments are interpreted to have been a tropical marsh with thorn-scrub to deciduous forest including some component of a nearby grassland. Although the mandible is nearer to the size of other large species of Canis known to occur in Mexico, the deep and robust mandible, presence of an accessory cuspid on the p2, an enlarged and robust p4, and accessory cuspids on the posterior margin of the trigonid ally the Canis from Terapa with C. dims. Length of p4 suggests a possible closer affiliation to C. d. guildayi than to C. d. dims. /// Describimos el primer registro del ya extinto lobo (Canis dims) de depsitos del Pleistoceno tardio del centro-este de Sonora, Mxico. Los restos incluyen una mandbula izquierda parcialmente completa y un fragmento izquierdo distal de hmero colectados de depsitos en Trapa. Se piensa que el clima local fue pan tano tropical con matorral espinoso a bosque deciduo, incluyendo algn componente de un pastizal cercano. A pesar de que el tamao de la mandibula es mas similar al de otras especies grandes de Canis que ocurren en Mxico, la profundidad y robustez de la mandibula, la presencia de una cspide accesoria en el p2, un p4 alargado y robusto, y cuspides accesorias en el margen posterior del trignido colocan el Canis de Trapa en C. dims. La longitud de p4 lo asocia mas con C. d. guildayi que con C. d. dims.
40263670|We compared incidence and average size of melanistic, adult male Trachemys scripta among three populations in Oklahoma. Proportion and size of melanistic males differed among two uncontaminated sites and one site contaminated with heavy metals. Average size of melanistic animals collected from one locality were larger than melanistic animals collected at the same locality 50 years ago; however, minimum size of melanistic males at all sites was consistent with published values for populations of T. scripta throughout its range. The proportion of melanistic males among the three sites differed significantly and the smallest proportion of melanistic males was in a population of T. scripta from Tar Creek Superfund Site, Ottawa Co., Oklahoma, an area contaminated with heavy metals. /// Comparamos la incidencia y tamano promedio en machos adultos melanizados de tres poblaciones en Oklahoma de Trachemys scripta. La proporcin de melanismo y el tamao de los machos melanizados variaron entre dos localidades no contaminadas y una contaminada con metales pesados. El tamao promedio de los animales melanizados que se colectaron de una localidad fue mayor al de ejemplares colectados en la misma localidad hace 50 aos; sin embargo, el tamano minimo de los machos melanizados en todos los sitios fue consistente con tamanos publicados para T. scripta a lo largo de su distributin geogrfica. La proporcin de machos melanizados difiri significantemente entre los tres sitios, y la menor proporcin de melanismo en los machos se encontr en una poblacin de T. scripta del Tar Creek Superfund Site, un area contaminada con metales pesados.
40263671|An American kestrel and barn owl were captured and eaten by red-tailed hawks during two separate encounters on San Clemente Island, California. There are few reports in the literature documenting red-tailed hawks taking other raptors as food items. These depredation events are likely rare, with one occurrence caused by human disturbance. /// Un cerncalo americano y una lechuza comn fueron capturados y consumidos en dos encuentros separados por la aguililla cola roja en San Clemente Island, California. Existen pocos informes en la literatura que documentan la aguililla cola roja tomando otras aves de rapia como alimento. Estos eventos de depredacion probablemente son poco frecuentes, con un incidente a consecuencia del disturbio humano.
40263672|The northern pygmy mouse (Baiomys taylori), fulvous harvest mouse (Reithrodontomys fulvescens), and Merriam's pocket mouse (Perognathus merriami) are new to the diet of the western burrowing owl (Athene cunicularia hypugaea). All three species were identified from remains in regurgitated pellets collected from roost sites of burrowing owls in southern Texas over a period of 4 winters. Together, northern pygmy mice and fulvous harvest mice represented 58% of mammals identified in 182 pellets regurgitated by western burrowing owls. Merriam's pocket mouse accounted for only 4% of identified mammalian prey. Frequency of occurrence in pellets was 16% for northern pygmy mice, 11% for fulvous harvest mice, and 3% for Merriam's pocket mice. The primary reason for absence of these species in previous studies of foods of western burrowing owls is that most were conducted in latitudes north of these southern- distributed species of mammals. /// El ratn enano norteo (Baiomys taylori), el ratn de cosecha (Reithrodontomys fulvescens) , y el ratn de abazones de Merriam (Perognathus merriami) son especies nuevas en la dieta del tecolote llanero (Athene cunicularia hypugaea). Las tres especies se identificaron a travs del anlisis de regurgitados alimenticios colectados de dormideros del tecolote llanero en el sur de Texas durante un perodo de cuatro inviernos. Juntos, los ratones enano y de cosecha representaron el 58% de todos los mamferos identificados en 182 regurgitados alimenticios del tecolote llanero. El ratn de abazones de Merriam represent solamente el 4% de las presas que fueron identificadas. La frecuencia de ocurrencia en los regurgitados alimenticios fue de 16% para el ratn enano norteo, 11% para el ratn de cosecha, y 3% para el ratn de abazones Merriam. La razon principal por la ausencia de estas tres especies en estudios anteriores del alimento del tecolote llanero es que la mayora se realiz en latitudes al norte de la distributin de estas especies sureas de mamferos.
40263673|Breeding birds of riparian forests and other habitats in the Ciudad Victoria area were studied, mainly in June 2003 and 2006. Olivaceous woodcreeper (Sittasomus griseicapillus) , mangrove swallow (Tachycineta albilinea), and scrub euphonia (Euphonia affinisr, nesting) extended their range north to the Ciudad Victoria area. Western kingbird (Tyrannus verticalis) nested for the first time in Tamaulipas and occurred south to the Ciudad Victoria area, and European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) nested in south-central Tamaulipas for the first time. Great curassow (Crax rubra) and crested guan (Penelope purpurascens) were rediscovered in the Ciudad Victoria area for the first time since 1909. Distributions of many species in the state of Tamaulipas are changing, as tropical species move north and temperate-zone species move south. /// Estudi aves reproductive de bosques riparios y otros lugares cerca de Ciudad Victoria, Tamaulipas, Mxico, principalmente en junio de 2003 y 2007. Trepatroncos olivceo (Sittasomus griseicapillus) , golondrinas manglera (Tachycineta albilinea) , y eufonias garganta negra (Euphonia affinis; anidando) extendieron sus reas de distributin hacia el norte hasta la zona de Ciudad Victoria. El tirano occidental (Tyrannus verticalis) anido en Tamaulipas por primera vez y alcanzo el area de Ciudad Victoria desde el norte, y el estornino europeo (Sturnus vulgaris) anido en el centro-sur de Tamaulipas por primera vez. El hocofaisan (Crax rubra) y el pavo cojolito (Penelope purpurascens) se redecrubrieron en el area de Ciudad Victoria por primera vez desde 1909. Distribuciones de muchas especies en el estado de Tamaulipas estn cambiando, cuando especies tropicales migran al norte y especies de la zona templada migran al sur.
40263674|Playas represent the only natural source of above-ground freshwater in the southern High Plains of North America; there are >20,000 such wetlands in the Panhandle of Texas (area of the highest concentration of playas). Many organisms use these small, ephemeral ponds during some stage of their life histories; e. g., dragonflies and damselflies (class Insecta, order Odonata, and suborders Anisoptera and Zygoptera, respectively) of this otherwise semi-arid region require these aquatic habitats for larval development. Relatively few distributional records have been established for Odonata in this region, so we conducted a baseline survey to assess distributional patterns of odonates in playas. Five seasons of observation and collection yielded important presence-absence data, resulting in 110 county records for the 16 counties in the study area. /// Las charcas efimeras (playas) representan el nico recurso natural de agua dulce superficial en el sur de las Altas Planicies de Norte Amrica; hay >20,000 de estas charcas en el noroeste de Texas (area con mayor concentration). Muchos organismos utilizan estas pequeas charcas efimeras durante algn estado de sus historias de vida; por ejemplo, las libelulas (Insecta: Odonata: Anisoptera) y los caballitos del diablo (Insecta: Odonata: Zygoptera) de esta regin semi-rida, requieren de estos habitats acuticos para el desarrollo larval. Existen pocos registros del orden Odonata en esta regin, as que llevamos a cabo un muestreo bsico para documentar los patrones de distributin geogrfica de odonatos en las playas. Cinco estaciones de observacin y coleccin arrojaron datos importantes sobre presencia y ausencia, resultando en 110 nuevos registros para los 16 condados del rea de estudio.
40263675|We presented a new trap for pocket gophers and compared its effectiveness with the Baker and Williams live trap. Our box trap readily captured juveniles 44 g and adults 294 g. We had 50% capture success. In general, capture success was similar to the Baker and Williams live trap. However, analyses suggested that our trap was superior in some aspects, e. g., capture of heavier pocket gophers and males. Our trap was user friendly and could be employed to equally capture all portions of a population of pocket gophers. /// Presentamos una nueva trampa para tuzas y comparamos su efectividad con la trampa viva descrita por Baker y Williams. Nuestra trampa con facilidad capturo a juveniles 44 g y a adultos 294 g. Tuvimos xito de captura de hasta un 50%. En general, la tasa de captura fue similar a la obtenida con la trampa viva de Baker y Williams. Sin embargo, analisis de los datos, sugieren que nuestra trampa fue mejor en algunos aspectos, por ejemplo la captura de tuzas de mayor peso y de machos. Nuestra trampa es facil de usar y se puede emplear para capturar todas las porciones de una poblacin de tuzas.
40263676|Diet of the barn owl (Tyto alba) has been well studied in temperate regions of the world, but there is a notable paucity of dietary data from the Neotropics. In this study, we examined diet of barn owls at Gold Button Lagoon in northern Belize. Pellets and prey remains were collected at roosting sites during 1997-1998. Diet was composed primarily of small mammals. Sigmodon hispidusvms the most common prey in terms of frequency of occurrence and biomass, with lesser numbers of other rodents being consumed. Similar to other reports for the Neotropics, barn owls in our study consumed relatively larger prey than conspecifics inhabiting temperate regions. Birds and amphibians were a minor component of diet. /// La dieta de la lechuza blanca (Tyto alba) ha sido bien estudiada en regiones templadas en el mundo, pero hay una notable escasez de datos de los neotrpicos. En este estudio examinamos la dieta de la lechuza blanca en Gold Button Lagoon en Belice septentrional. Recogimos las egagrpilas y restos de presas en sitios de percha entre 1997-1998. La dieta fue compuesta principalmente de pequenos mamiferos. Sigmodon hispidus fue la ms comn presa en trminos de la frecuencia de hallazgo y biomasa, siendo consumidos en menor nmero otros roedores. Como otros estudios en la regin neotropical, la lechuza blanca en nuestro estudio consumi presas ms grandes que la misma especie en las zonas templadas. Aves y anfibios fueron componentes menores de su dieta.
40263677|In the spring of 1848, Phillip G. Ferguson wrote in his diary of having seen a number of "small fishes...many of them having glittering blue backs" in a warm spring a short distance south of El Carrizal in northern Chihuahua, for what we presume to be the first record of pupfishes (Cyprinodon) in that state or perhaps anywhere in Mexico. Here we discuss this, other 19th-century, and subsequent occurrences of the genus in that region of North America, including our views on the species that Ferguson may have encountered, the scarcity of historical records of these fishes in Chihuahua, and possible reasons for the latter situation. /// En la primavera de 1848, Philip G. Ferguson escribio en su diario haber visto cantidades de "peces pequeos...muchos de los que tuvieron espaldas de azul relucido" en un ojo templado a una corta distancia al sur de El Carrizal en el norte de Chihuahua, para lo que presumimos fuera el primer registro conocido de pez cachorrito (Cyprinodon) en aquel estado o quizs en cualquier parte de Mexico. Discutimos este, otros del siglo decimonoveno, y subsiguientes hallazgos de este gnero en esa regin de Norteamrica, incluyendo nuestras opiniones acerca de la especie que Ferguson pudo haber encontrado, la escasez de registros histricos de estos peces en Chihuahua, y las posibles razones para esta situatin.
40263680|Populations of ocelots (Leopardus pardalis) have declined during the past century due mainly to loss of habitat resulting in the ocelot being listed as endangered by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. In southern Texas, the northern distribution of the ocelot overlaps the southern distribution of the bobcat (Lynx rufus). Because bobcats could adversely affect populations of ocelots through interspecific competition, we examined habitat selection of sympatric ocelots and bobcats to determine if habitat partitioning could be functioning to reduce interspecific interactions. Using radiotelemetry, we analyzed macro-scale (vegetative communities) and micro-scale (structural components) selection of habitats by sympatric ocelots and bobcats on Laguna Atascosa National Wildlife Refuge, Cameron County, Texas. We looked for differences in placement of home ranges within the general study area, selection of cover within home ranges, and use of structural components of vegetation within types of cover. There was substantial evidence for habitat partitioning with ocelots selecting areas with >75% canopy cover, while bobcats selected areas with <75% canopy cover. Thus, coexistence between these two species might be facilitated by resource partitioning of habitat. /// Las poblaciones de ocelote (Leopardus pardalis) han disminuido durante el ltimo siglo debido principalmente a la prdida de hbitat. Como resultado, esta especie ha sido enlistada en peligro de extincin por el United States Fish and Wildlife Service. En el sur de Texas, la distribucin septentrional del ocelote se sobrepone con la distribucin meridional del lince rojo (Lynx rufus). Debido a que el lince rojo podra afectar negativamente las poblaciones del ocelote con la competencia interespecfica, examinamos la seleccin de hbitat de las dos especies simptricas para determinar si la particin de hbitat poda reducir las interacciones interespecficas. Usando radiotelemetra, analizamos la seleccin de hbitat a una macro escala (comunidades vegetales) y a una micro escala (componentes estructurales) en Laguna Atascosa National Wildlife Refuge, condado de Cameron, Texas. Buscamos diferencias en la ubicacin de rangos de hogar dentro del area general de estudio, la seleccin del tipo de cobertura dentro del rango de hogar, y el uso de componentes estructurales de vegetacin dentro del tipo de cobertura. Encontramos evidencia substancial de la particin de habitat, con ocelotes seleccionando reas con >75% de cobertura del dosel mientras que el lince rojo selecciono areas con <75% de cobertura del dosel. Por lo tanto, la particin de los recursos del hbitat podria facilitar la co-existencia entre estas dos especies.
40263681|Shorebirds (Charadrii) spend the majority (ca. 70%) of their lifecycle in wintering and migratory staging areas located on temperate and tropical coastlines; therefore, the implications of habitat loss and destruction require assessment of both marginal and prime habitats in coastal areas. In this study, behavior was used to determine use of habitat within an urban wetland complex located on the Texas coast. Instantaneous scans were used to determine behavior of shorebirds in five habitat types: bayshore, tidal and isolated ponds, estuarine lakeshore, and a salt marsh. Behavior of 22 species of shorebirds representing six guilds was documented. Of the shorebirds observed, 90% were foraging and significantly more were foraging than were engaged in other activities. Foraging occurred significantly more in tidal ponds than in the four other habitats and foraging was greatest in spring. Behavioral observations provided important insight into function of habitat, underscoring the need to incorporate behavioral studies into strategies to monitor shorebirds. /// Los pjaros playeros (Charadrii) pasan la mayora (ca. 70%) de su ciclo de vida en las reas invernales y migratorias situadas en costas templadas y tropicales; por lo tanto, las implicaciones de la prdida y de la destructin del hbitat requieren la evaluatin de hbitats marginales y principales en areas costeras. En este estudio, el comportamiento fue utilizado para determinar uso del hbitat en un complejo de humedales urbanos situado en la costa de Texas. Inventarios instantneos fueron utilizadas para determinar comportamiento de los pjaros playeros en cinco tipos de hbitat: costa de baha, charcas de marea y aisladas, orilla de lagos estuarios, y marisma salobre. El comportamiento de 22 especies de pjaros playeros que representaron seis gremios fue documentado. De los pjaros playeros observados, 90% estuvieron forrajeando y forrajeaban significativamente ms que hacer otras actividades. El forrajeo ocurri significativamente ms en las charcas de marea que los otros cuatro hbitats y el forrajeo fue ms en la primavera. Las observaciones del comportamiento proporcionaron entendimiento importante en la funcin del hbitat, subrayando la necesidad de incorporar estudios del comportamiento en estrategias de monitoreo de pjaros playeros.
40263682|Sand shinnery oak (Quercus havardii) communities, a major component of grassland habitat of birds in eastern New Mexico, frequently are managed with livestock grazing and herbicide application for control of shrubs. We examined nest density, nest-site selection, and daily rate of survival of nests of grassland birds among four combinations of treatments with tebuthiuron (0.75 kg/ha) and a short-duration, rotational-grazing system being used to restore sand shinnery oak communities in eastern New Mexico. During breeding seasons 2004 and 2005, we searched 4-ha subplots in four tebuthiuron-grazing-combination replicates for nests, measured vertical and overhead cover at each nest site and an associated random point, and estimated daily rate of survival of nests using program MARK Density of nests was similar among all treatments but greater in 2005 than 2004. Although vertical cover differed among treatments and between years, it did not affect selection or success of nest sites. Overhead cover also differed among treatments and between years. Birds selected nest sites with greater overhead cover but this did not influence success of nest, which was low in all treatments. During incubation, daily survival of nests was greater in untreated plots; however, during the nestling period, daily survival of nests was greater in tebuthiuron-treated plots. Neither tebuthiuron nor grazing treatment appeared to adversely affect density of nests of grassland birds or success for the species studied, but the low daily rate of survival of nests in this community bears further investigation. /// Comunidades de Quercus havardii, un componente principal del hbitat pastoral de aves en el este de Nuevo Mxico, han sido frecuentemente manejadas con el pastoreo de ganado y la aplicacion de herbicidas para el control de matorral. Examinamos la densidad de nidos, el sitio seleccionado para el nido, y la tasa de sobrevivencia diaria de nidos de aves de pastizales en cuatro combinaciones de tratamientos con tebuthiuron (0.75 kg/ha) y manejo rotativo de pastoreo a corto plazo utilizadas para restaurar las comunidades de Quercus havardii en el este de Nuevo Mexico. En el perodo reproductivo de 2004 y 2005, buscamos nidos en cuatro sublotes de 4 ha cada uno en cuatro rplicas de las combinaciones de tebuthiuron y pastoreo, medimos la cubierta vertical y la que estaba sobre cada nido y las mismas de un punto al azar, y estimamos la tasa de sobrevivencia diaria de nidos utilizando el programa MARK. La densidad de nidos fue similar en todos los tratamientos, pero mayor en el 2005 que en el 2004. A pesar de que la cubierta vertical difiri entre tratamientos y aos, no afect la selectin del sitio del nido ni su xito. La cubierta sobre los nidos vari entre tratamientos y aos. Las aves nidificaron en sitios con ms cubierta, pero sto no afect el xito del nido, que fue bajo en todos tratamientos. Durante la incubatin, la sobrevivencia diaria de nidos fue superior en lotes no tratados; sin embargo, durante el periodo de cra la sobrevivencia diaria de nidos fue superior en lotes tratados con tebuthiuron. Aparentemente ni el tratamiento de tebuthiuron ni de pastoreo tuvieron efecto adverso ni en la densidad de nidos de aves de pastizales ni en el xito para las especies estudiadas, pero la baja tasa de sobrevivencia diaria de nidos en esta comunidad llama futura investigacin.
40263683|I tested the circadian activity rhythm of field-captured prairie voles, Microtus ochrogaster, in experimental laboratory chambers. Microtus ochrogaster displayed a circadian rhythm with major activity during the dark period, whether in a normal or reversed photoperiod. When in constant dark and constant light, there was no distinct circadian rhythm; activity was greater when in constant dark than when in constant light. An activity rhythm with little activity during the daylight hours presumably would reduce risk of predation from diurnal avian predators. I propose such an activity pattern contributes to the ability of M. ochrogaster to achieve high population densities in habitats with sparse vegetative cover. /// Evalu el ritmo circadiano de actividad de los campaoles de pradera capturados en el campo, Microtus ochrogaster, en cmaras experimentales del laboratorio. Microtus ochrogaster demonstr un ritmo circadiano con mayor actividad durante el perodo oscuro, ya fuera en un fotoperiodo normal o invertido. Durante oscuridad constante y luz constante, no hubo un ritmo circadiano notable; la actividad fue mayor en oscuridad constante que en luz constante. Un ritmo de actividad con poca actividad durante las horas de luz reduciria presumiblemente el riesgo de rapia por aves depredadoras diurnas. Propongo que tal patrn de actividad contribuye a la habilidad de M. ochrogaster para alcanzar densidades altas de poblacin en hbitats con cobertura vegetativa escasa.
40263684|Estimating rates of survival of cougars (Puma concolor) and identifying sources of mortalities potentially enhance management prescriptions. Sport hunting is believed to be the primary cause of mortality in hunted populations of cougars, but little research has evaluated how hunting and other causes of death might influence survival and sources of mortality of these predators in semi-arid ecosystems. We captured and monitored 16 adults (12 males, 4 females) during 2006 and 2007 on two heavily hunted, semi-arid, study areas in north-central Arizona. Rates of survival of adults differed moderately between study areas and years, generally were 0.67, and were comparatively low for combined years (0.55). One-half of radiocoUared adults died during the study, and sport hunting was the primary cause of deaths, followed by intraspeciflc aggression and collision with vehicles. We hypothesize that sport hunting was the primary factor influencing relatively low rates of survival of cougars on the study areas. /// La estimacin de la tasa de supervivencia y la identificacin de las fuentes de mortandad en pumas (Puma concolor) puede ser de utilidad para la toma de decisiones de manejo. Se cree que la caza deportiva es la causa principal de mortandad en poblaciones de pumas perseguidos, pero existe poca investigacin que documente cmo la cacera y otras causas de muerte pudieran influenciar la supervivencia y causas de mortandad de estos depredadores en ecosistemas semi-ridos. Se capturaron y monitorearon 16 pumas adultos (12 machos, 4 hembras) durante el 2006 y el 2007 en dos reas de estudio, semi-ridas con mucha cacera en el norte-centro de Arizona. Los porcentajes de supervivencia difirieron moderadamente entre reas de estudio y anos, generalmente fueron 0.67, y resultaron comparativamente bajas para los anos combinados (0.55). La mitad de los adultos con radiocollares murieron durante el estudio, siendo la cacera deportiva la principal causa de la muerte, seguida por agresin intraespecfica y colisin con vehculos. Se propone la hipesis de que la caceria deportiva fue el factor m importante influenciando la tasa de supervivencia relativamente baja de los pumas en las eas de estudio.
40263685|This study was conducted to characterize trophic relationships of small nonnative fishes and to determine if predation by these fishes contributes to the decline of desert pupfish (Cyprinodon macularius), an endangered cyprinodont on the verge of extinction. We sampled 403 hybrid Mozambique tilapias (Oreochromis mossambica by O. urolepis), 107 redbelly tilapias (Tilapia zillii), 32 longjaw mudsuckers (Gillichthys mirabilis), 182 western mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis), 222 sailfin mollies (Poecilia latipinna), 63 shortfin mollies (Poecilia mexicana), and 235 porthole livebearers (Poedliopsis gradlis) from a natural creek and four agricultural drains during September 1999December 2001. Evidence of piscivory was in gastrointestinal contents of 14 hybrid Mozambique tilapias, 3 redbelly tilapias, 10 longjaw mudsuckers, 8 western mosquitofish, 2 sailfin mollies, and 8 porthole livebearers. Although digestion often was too advanced for identification of fishes consumed by nonnative fishes, remains of desert pupfish were in gastrointestinal contents of a longjaw mudsucker. Our findings, along with field evidence from other studies that inverse relationships exist between abundances of desert pupfish and nonnative species, are consistent with the hypothesis that predation by nonnative species is contributing to decline of desert pupfish. We suspect that competitive interactions with nonnative fishes might also adversely affect abundance of desert pupfish. /// Este estudio fue conducido para caracterizar las relaciones trficas entre los peces exticos pequeos y para determinar si la depredacion de estos peces contribuy a la disminucion del cachorrito del desierto (Cyprinodon macularius), un cyprinodonte en peligro de extincin. Muestreamos un total de 403 hbridos de tilapia mosmbica (Oreochromis mossambica par O. urolepis) , 107 tilapias de vientre rojo (Tilapia zillii), 32 chupalodos (Gillichthys mirabilis), 182 guayacones mosquito (Gambusia affinis), 222 topotes velo negro (Poecilia latipinna), 63 topotes del Atlntico (Poecilia mexicana), y 235 guatopote jarocho (Poeciliopsis gradlis) en un riachuelo natural y cuatro desagues agricolas desde septiembre de 1999 hasta diciembre del 2001. Evidencia de piscivora fue encontrada en el contenido gastrointestinal de 14 hbridos de tilapias mosmbica, 3 tilapias de vientre rojo, 10 chupalodos, 8 guayacones mosquito, 2 tapotes velo negro y 8 guatopotes jarocho. Aunque la digestin fue frecuentemente muy avanzada para identificar las especies de peces consumidas por los peces exoticos, restos de cachorritos del desierto fueron observados en el contenido gastrointestinal de un chupalodo. Nuestros resultados, junto con evidencia de campo de otros estudios en los que existen relaciones inversas entre abundancias de los cachorritos del desierto y peces exticos, son consistentes con la hiptesis de que la depredacin causada por los peces exticos est contribuyendo a la disminucin del cachorrito del desierto. Sospechamos que las interacciones competitivas con peces exoticos pueden afectar tambin la abundancia del cachorrito del desierto de una manera perjudicial.
40263686|For insectivorous bats in temperate regions, energetic stresses imposed by the thermal environment of a roost might cause bats to be more selective of prey consumed to compensate for increased energetic demands. We collected samples of guano from beneath maternity roosts of Myotis velifer in caves and barns in the Red Hills region of southern Kansas. Caves were cooler than barns and, thus, imposed greater energetic stress on roosting bats. We analyzed food habits to determine if diet was associated with the thermal environment of roosts in caves and barns. Food habits of adult female bats roosting in caves and barns did not differ, suggesting that females are using other methods, most likely a combination of methods, to cope with cooler temperatures in caves. /// Para murcilagos insectivoros en zonas templadas, estreses energticos impuestos por el ambiente termal de un dormidero pueden causar que los murcilagos sean ms selectivos con respeto a la presa consumida para satisfacer un aumento de demandas energticas. Obtuvimos muestras de guano de debajo de dormideros de maternidad de Myotis velifer en cuevas y graneros en la regin de Red Hills en el sur de Kansas. Las temperaturas de las cuevas estaban ms frescas que las de los graneros y por eso imponian ms estrs energtico en los murcilagos en sus dormideros. Evaluamos la alimentatin para determinar si la dieta se asociaba con el ambiente termal de dormideros en cuevas y en graneros. La alimentacin de los murcilagos adultos hembras en las cuevas y en las perchas no difiri, sugiriendo que las hembras estn empleando otro mtodo, ms probable una combination de metodos, para ajustarse a las temperaturas ms frescas de las cuevas.
40263687|Survival of chicks of the interior least tern (Sterna antillarum athalassos) has been difficult to estimate due to their semi-precocial development and cryptic coloration. After chicks disperse from the nest, they rarely are relocated. Our objectives were to estimate survival of chicks and study their movement patterns. In 1999, we attached radiotransmitters to 25 chicks and tracked them for 219 days depending on retention of transmitter. Because fate could not be determined always when signals were lost, a high and low estimate of survival was calculated. Kaplan-Meier estimates of survival were calculated first by assuming that all lost signals represented mortalities, and second that these transmitters failed and chicks were alive. This resulted in a minimum estimate of 5% of chicks surviving at the end of the study period and a high of 27%. Five chicks fledged, six died, and fate of the remaining 14 was undetermined. Although chicks appeared to allocate a substantial part of their daily movement to nocturnal periods, average rates of diurnal (7.6 m/h) and nocturnal movement (12.5 m/h) did not differ. Chicks primarily moved toward stable sources of water. /// Ha sido difkil estimar la sobrevivencia de polluelos del charrn mnimo (Sterna antillarum athalassos) por su desarrollo semi-precocial y su coloratin crptica. Despus de salir del nido, los polluelos pocas veces son relocalizados. Nuestros objetivos fueron estimar la sobrevivencia de polluelos y estudiar patrones de su movimiento. En 1999, colocamos radiotransmisores en 25 polluelos y los seguimos por 2-19 das, segn la retencin del transmisor. Porque no se pudo saber el destino de los polluelos cuando las senales de los transmisores se perdieron, se hicieron clculos altos y bajos de su sobrevivencia. Se hicieron clculos Kaplan-Meier de sobrevivencia, suponiendo primero que todas las senales perdidas representaban muertos, y segundo que esos transmisores fallaron y los polluelos sobrevivieron. Esto dio el resultado de un clculo mnimo de sobrevivencia de 5% de los polluelos al final del perodo de estudio y un mximo de 27%. Cinco polluelos volaron del nido, seis murieron, y no se determin el destino de los catorce restantes. Aunque los polluelos parecan trasladarse mas durante las horas nocturnas, el promedio de su velocidad diurna (7.6 m/ hora) y su movimiento nocturno (12 m/hora) no difirieron. Los polluelos se trasladaron principalmente hacia fuentes acuticas estables.
40263688|We collected 58 species of caddisflies representing 30 genera and 16 families during a 5- year period in Oak Creek, Coconino Co., Arizona. This is the largest number of species of caddisflies reported in any drainage in Arizona and includes >50% of species reported from the state. Species assemblages changed dramatically along the 767-m descent of Oak Creek over a 70-km distance. Discharge records suggest reduced winter and spring surges of water and increased embeddedness of the channel have caused changes in assemblages of caddisflies in Oak Creek over the past several decades. Increased numbers of hydroptilids, hydropsychids, and leptocerids have replaced limnephilids. We conducted a 2-year phenological study at monthly intervals at two sites separated by <400 m in elevation and a distance of 14 km. Spring surges of water played a selective role in larval success and ultimately in number and composition of captures of adults between years. We increased the number of recorded species of caddisflies to 109 in the state. A baseline on assemblages of caddisflies was provided for monitoring changes in health of ecosystem in Oak Creek during the predicted, long-term drought in the Southwest. /// Cincuenta y ocho especies de Tricptera de 30 gneros y 16 familias fueron colectadas durante un perodo de 5 aos en Oak Creek, condado de Coconino, Arizona, EE. UU. sta es la ms alta cantidad de especies de Tricptera reportada en cualquier desage en Arizona e incluye > 50% de las especies reportadas en el estado. Los ensamblajes de especies cambiaron dramticamente a lo largo del descenso de 767 metros en la distancia de 70 kilmetros de Oak Creek. Registros de descarga sugieren inundaciones invernales y primaverales reducidas y el aumento de la sedimentatin del lecho han cambiado los ensamblajes de Tricptera en Oak Creek en las ltimas dcadas Nmeros mayores de individuos de hydroptilidae, hydropsychidae, y leptoceridae han reemplazado limnephilidae. Un estudio fenolgico de dos aos fue conducido en intervalos mensuales en dos sitios separados de < 400 m de elevacin y una distancia de 14 km. Inundaciones primaverales tuvieron un papel de selectin en el xito de la larva y eventualmente en la composicin y el nmero de adultos capturados entre aos. Se aument el nmero de especies de Tricptera registradas en el estado a 109. Se proveyeron datos de base de ensamblajes de Tricptera para monitorear cambios en la salud del ecosistema en Oak Creek durante la sequa pronosticada a largo plazo en el suroeste de los EE. UU.
40263689|Hoary bats (Lasiurus cinereus) exhibit continental patterns of migration that are unique to bats, but details about their behaviors during migration are lacking. We captured 177 hoary bats in spring and early summer 2002 as individuals migrated through the Sandia Mountains of north-central New Mexico. Our results support earlier observations of asynchronous timing of migration between sexes of L. cinereus during spring, with females preceding males by ca. 1 month. We provide the first evidence that hoary bats may travel in dispersed groups, fly below the tree canopy along streams, and feed while migrating during spring. Analysis of guano revealed that diet of L. cinereus consisted mostly of moths, with more than one-half of samples identified as Noctuidae and Geometridae. We observed a late- spring decline in consumption of moths that might be related to seasonal changes in abundance of prey, differential selection of prey by bats, or sampling bias. We suspect that spring migration of L. cinereus through New Mexico temporally coincides with the seasonal abundance of moths. /// Murcilagos cola peluda canosos (Lasiurus cinereus) presentan patrones continentales migratorios que son nicos en los murcilagos, pero faltan detalles sobre su comportamiento migratorio. Capturamos a 177 murcilagos cola peluda canosos en la primavera y principios de verano del 2002 cuando los individuos emigraron por las Sandia Mountains del norte-centro de Nuevo Mxico. Nuestros resultados respaldan las previas observaciones de la asincronizacin migratoria entre los sexos de L. cinereus durante la primavera, con las hembras procediendo a los machos aproximadamente un mes. Proveemos la primera evidencia de que los murcilagos cola peluda canosos quizs viajan en grupos dispersados, vuelan debajo del dosel forestal a lo largo de los riachuelos, y comen durante su actividad migratoria primaveral. El anlisis de guano revel que la dieta de L. cinereus constaba principalmente de polillas, con ms de la mitad de las muestras identificadas como Noctuidae y Geometridae. Observamos una disminucin a fines de la primavera en el consumo de polillas que puede estar relacionada con los cambios estacionales en la abundancia de presas, la seleccin diferencial de presas por murcilagos, o sesgo muestral. Sospechamos que el paso migratorio primaveral de L. cinereus por Nuevo Mxico coincide con la abundancia estacional de polillas.
40263690|We report characteristics of maternity roosts of Allen's lappet-browed bat (Idionycteris phyllotis) at the northernmost extent of its range. In summer 2004, three female I. phyllotis were fitted with radiotransmitters and followed to three roosts in cracks of the same cliff face within Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, Kane and Garfield counties, Utah. There were 15 bats in the three roosts, which were on a large northwest-facing cliff, in the eastern side of a small box-canyon. Pinon-juniper (Pinus-Juniperus) woodland was on ridge tops and bottoms of canyons, which were ca. 1,800 m elevation with mature to old-growth woodlands. Roosts were in the top one-half of the cliff face, which was tall and highly fractured, with a large talus slope at the base. /// Presentamos caractersticas de dormideros de maternidad del murcilago Idionycteris phyllotis en la parte ms al norte de su distribucin geogrfica. En el verano de 2004, colocamos radiotransmisores en tres hembras de I. phyllotis y las seguimos a tres dormideros en grietas del mismo acantilado dentro del monumento nacional Grand Staircase-Escalante, condados de Kane y Garfield, en el estado de Utah. Hubo 15 murcilagos en los tres dormideros que se encontraron en un acantilado que daba al noroeste en el lado este de un can pequeo sin salida. Arbolados de pin-enebro (Pinus-Juniperus) se encontraron en las crestas y fondos de los caones, de cerca de 1,800 m de altura y contaron con rboles maduros a viejos. Los dormideros estuvieron en la mitad superior del acantilado, que fue alto y muy fracturado, con una falda grande de escoria en la base.
40263691|We measured prevalence of malaria infection and prevalence and intensity of chigger infection in Yarrow's spiny lizards (Sceloporus jarrovii) from three sites in the Chiricahua Mountains of southeastern Arizona. Our primary objective was to compare parasite load among sites, sexes, and reproductive classes. We also compared our findings to those of previous studies on malaria and chiggers in S. jarrovii from the same area. Of lizards examined, 85 and 93% were infected by malaria and chiggers, respectively. Prevalence of malaria was two times higher than previously reported for the same area, while prevalence of chiggers was similar to previous findings. Intensity of chigger infection was variable among sites, but not among reproductive classes. The site with the highest intensity of chigger infection also had the most vegetative cover, suggesting that this habitat was more favorable for non-parasitic adult chiggers. /// Medimos la frecuencia de infeccin por malaria y la frecuencia e intensidad de infeccin por caros en la lagartija espinosa Sceloporus jarrovii de tres sitios en las montaas Chiricahua del sureste de Arizona. Nuestro objetivo principal fue comparar la carga de parsitos entre sitios, sexos y clases reproductivas. Adicionalmente comparamos nuestros hallazgos con estudios previos sobre malaria y caros para esta especie en la misma rea. De las lagartijas examinadas, el 85 y 93% estaban infectadas por malaria y caros, respectivamente. La frecuencia de infeccin por malaria fue dos veces mayor de lo reportado previamente para la misma rea, mientras que la frecuencia de infeccin por caros fue similar a registros anteriores. La intensidad de infeccin por caros fue variable entre sitios, pero no entre clases reproductivas. El sitio con la mayor intensidad de infeccin por caros tambin present la mayor cobertura vegetal, sugiriendo que este habitat fue ms favorable para caros adultos en etapa no-parastica.
40263692|Suitable nesting sites created as a result of construction of concrete bridges in southern Arkansas have allowed cliff swallows (Petrochelidon pyrrhonota) to extend their breeding range southward. During spring 2007, several locations in the Gulf Coastal Plain physiographic province of southern Arkansas were being used for nesting. These observations expand the known breeding range from the Red River drainage in southwestern Arkansas (and one location in the Ouachita River drainage) across the Gulf Coastal Plain including the Ouachita and Saline drainages of southeastern Arkansas. /// Lugares adecuados para nidos provenientes de la construccin de puentes de concreto en Arkansas meridional han permitido a las golondrinas Petrochelidon pyrrhonota extender su distribucin reproductiva al sur. Durante la primavera del 2007, varias localidades en la provincia fisiogrfica del Llano Costero del Golfo en el sur de Arkansas fueron utilizadas para nidos, expandiendo as la distribucin reproductiva conocida desde el drenaje del Red River en el sudoeste de Arkansas (y una localidad del drenaje del ro Ouachita), ms el Llano Costero del Golfo, y para incluir los drenajes de Ouachita y Saline del sudeste de Arkansas.
40263693|In 2006, we observed two female Texas horned lizards (Phrynosoma cornutum) digging nests in hard caliche soil in Randall County, Texas. One female used her head in a twisting and side-to-side motion to backfill the nest, which may pack soil between eggs without injuring the eggs and prevent collapse of the nest during extreme precipitation. Hatchlings emerged from nests through single holes, which coincided with original entrances of tunnels that were excavated by females, and hatchlings had left the nest 24 h of when the first hatchling emerged. Behaviors during their first weeks above ground changed from an instant-flee response to a sudden-prolonged immobility within ca. 2 weeks. Hatchlings ate only ants <4 mm in length and avoided larger harvester ants (Pogonomyrmex rugosus). Hatchlings shed their skin ca. 4 weeks after emergence and began hibernation ca. 6 weeks later than adults. /// En 2006, observamos dos hembras del camalen texano (Phrynosoma comutum) excavando sus nidos en suelo duro de caliche en el condado de Randall en Texas. Una hembra us su cabeza torcindola de un lado para otro para rellenar el nido, lo que puede poner suelo entre los huevos sin daarlos y prevenir el colapso del nido durante precipitacin extrema. Las cras salieron del nido por un hoyo, que coincide con el tnel originalmente excavado por la hembra, y todas las cras salieron del nido dentro de 24 horas. Al principio, las cras fuera del nido huyeron inmediatamente, pero despus de aproximadamente 2 semanas adoptaron la conducta de permanecer inmviles. Los recin eclosionados comieron solamente hormigas < 4 mm de largo, y evitaron las hormigas ms grandes (Pogonomyrmex rugosus). Las cras mudaron de piel ms o menos 4 semanas despus de salir del nido y empezaron su invernacin aproximadamente 6 semanas ms tarde que los adultos.
40263694|Conventional attachment of radiotransmitters may not be feasible in pocket gophers due to their unique morphology and fossorial lifestyle. We implanted radiotransmitters subcutaneously in Ozark pocket gophers, Geomys bursarius ozarkensis, 3 March 200710 February 2008. Of the 72 surgeries, 70 were successful. We recaptured 22 individuals (range, 20-325 days post-implantation) and recorded a mean change in mass from implantation to recapture for adult males, adult females, and juveniles of 1.1% (SD = 11.9), 1.6% (SD = 9.0), and 17.3% (SD = 18.8), respectively. We suggest that subcutaneous implantation is the best method for pocket gophers and may be applicable for other small mammals. /// La fijacin convencional de radiotransmisores puede no ser la ms apropiada para las tuzas debido a su peculiar morfologa y hbitos subterrneos. Implantamos radiotransmisores subcutneos en las tuzas Geomys bursarius ozarkensis entre el 3 de marzo de 2007 y el 10 de febrero de 2008. De las 72 cirugas, 70 fueron exitosas. Recapturamos 22 individuos (con un rango de entre 20 y 235 das despus del implante) y encontramos un cambio de masa promedio desde la implantacin hasta la recaptura para machos, hembras y juveniles de 1.1% (DE = 11.9), 1.6% (DE = 9.0), y 17.3% (DE = 18.8), respectivamente. Sugerimos que la implantacin subcutnea es el mejor mtodo para las tuzas y puede ser aplicable para otros mamferos pequeos.
40263695|A well-preserved right lower jaw with complete P-M and an isolated canine of a large felid was found in the southern state of Chiapas, Mexico. It is identified as the American lion Panthera leo atrox. Its presence in Chiapas documents its southernmost distribution in North America./// Una mandbula derecha bien conservada de un gran flido con P-M y un canino aislado fueron encontrados en el estado sureo de Chiapas, Mxico. Fue identificado como len americano Panthera leo atrox. Su presencia en Chiapas documenta la distribucin ms al sur del continente americano.
40263696|The cave myotis (Myotis velifer) is a colonial, cave-dwelling bat distributed from the southwestern United States to Honduras. I captured an adult, polydactylous female M. velifer at Fort Hood Army Installation, north-central Texas, on 26 July 2006. The bat had seven toes on her left foot and five toes on her right foot. The supernumerary toes appeared normally articulated and developed, and they were voluntarily controlled by the bat. I observed no other polydactylous M. velifer on Fort Hood. This is the second known occurrence of polydactyly in this species. /// El murcilago de cueva (Myotis velifer) es un animal colonial, caverncola, distribuido del suroeste de los EU hasta Honduras. Captur a una hembra adulta polidctila de M. velifer, en las instalaciones militares de Fort Hood en el centro-norte de Texas, el 26 de julio del 2006. El murcilago tena siete dedos en la pata izquierda y cinco en la derecha. Los dedos supernumerarios parecan estar articulados y desarrollados de manera normal, y fueron controlados voluntariamente por el murcilago. No se observ ningn otro individuo de M. velifer con polidactilia en esta zona. Este hallazgo representa el segundo evento de polidactilia conocido para esta especie.
40263697|The Mexican long-tongued bat Choeronycteris mexicana is rare in Texas, as well as elsewhere in the United States and in Mexico. A C. mexicana was captured in December 2007 at a residence in El Paso, El Paso County, Texas. This is the first record of this species in western Texas. /// El murcilago trompudo mexicano Choeronycteris mexicana es considerado raro en Texas, tambin en el resto de los Estados Unidos y en Mxico. Se captur un ejemplar de C. mexicana en diciembre del 2007 en una casa en El Paso, condado de El Paso, Texas. Este ejemplar es el primer registro de la especie en el oeste de Texas.
40263698|Studies of distributional ecology of whiptail lizards near the Rio Grande in Presidio County, Texas, have resulted in discovery of Aspidoscelis neomexicana at three of >20 sites investigated. Records of A. neomexicana in Presidio County are >225 km southeast of sites inhabited by the species in El Paso, El Paso County. Observations made during 1988-2008 indicate that A. neomexicana in Presidio County inhabits only a few areas of floodplain where there is intermingling of several microhabitats characterized by loamy, gravelly alluvium with various combinations of trees, shrubs, Russian thistle (Salsola kali), Spanish dagger (Yucca torreyi), cacti, grasses, and forbs. Each species of whiptail lizard (i.e., A. exsanguis, A. tesselata, and A. tigris) that is syntopic with A. neomexicana is widely distributed in Presidio County and elsewhere in the United States and Mexico. Despite range maps to the contrary, A. neomexicana has not been recorded in Mexico; forays in 1993 to San Antonio, Chihuahua, across the Rio Grande (=Ro Bravo) from Candelaria, revealed only A. exsanguis and A. tesselata. /// Estudios sobre la distribucin ecolgica de lagartijas del gnero Aspidoscelis cerca del ro Grande/Bravo en el condado de Presidio, Texas, han resultado en el descubrimiento de Aspidoscelis neomexicana en tres de >20 sitios investigados. Registros de A. neomexicana en el condado de Presidio se localizan a >225 km al sureste de los sitios habitados por esta especie en El Paso, condado de El Paso, Texas. Observaciones hechas durante 1988-2008 indican que A. neomexicana en el condado de Presidio habita nicamente algunas reas planas inundables donde se presentan varios microhbitats mezclados caracterizados por suelos aluviales de grava y marga con varias combinaciones de rboles, arbustos, cardn ruso {Salsola kali), izote criollo (Yucca torreyi), cactus, zacates, y vegetacin herbcea. Cada especie de lagartija (esto es, A. exsanguis, A. tesselata y A. tigris) sintpica con A. neomexicana est distribuida ampliamente en el condado de Presidio y en otras partes de los Estados Unidos y Mxico. Aunque de acuerdo a los mapas distribucionales, A. neomexicana no ha sido registrada en Mxico; excursiones en 1993 a San Antonio, Chihuahua, al otro lado del ro Grande frente de Candelaria, revelaron que slo A. exsanguis y A. tesselata estuvieron presentes.
40263723|We compared small mammals in Gulf cordgrass (Spartina spartinae) to coastal-prairie and low-marsh, Spartina alterniflora communities, and we considered the effect of standing-crop biomass and nutrient concentration in plants in the Gulf cordgrass community on dynamics of populations of small mammals. We predicted lower species richness and density of small mammals and shorter residence time in Gulf cordgrass because of little vertical habitat structure, sparse ground cover, and low abundance of dicots, plants that contain nutrients necessary for reproduction by hispid cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus). Richness in Gulf cordgrass (seven species of rodents) was similar to coastal prairie (six species plus three non-native rodents) with S. hispidus and fulvous harvest mice (Reithrodontomys fulvescens) numerically dominant in both communities. Density of S. hispidus was higher in Gulf cordgrass likely reflecting high standing-crop biomass; however, lack of ground cover contributed to low residence time. Low residency and increase in density during months of increase in density in coastal prairie indicated that Gulf cordgrass functioned as a dispersal sink from adjacent coastal prairie. Density and residency of R fulvescens were lower in Gulf cordgrass likely reflecting lower quality of habitat because of lack of vertical structure. Low biomass of dicots in Gulf cordgrass would seem to limit availability of nutrients, but nutrients in green stems of S. spartinae were sufficient for growth and reproduction for 5. hispidus. /// Comparamos mamferos pequeos en el pasto Sparttna spartinae con los de comunidades de Spartina alterniflora en pradera costea y pantanos bajos, y consideramos el efecto de la biomasa y concentracin de nutrientes de plantas en la comunidad de S. spartinae en la dinmica poblacional de pequeos mamferos. Predijimos la riqueza de especies y densidad de pequeos mamferos ms bajas y menos tiempo de estada en S. spartinae por la baja estructura vertical del habitat, escasa cobertura vegetal, y poca abundancia de dicotiledneas, plantas que contienen los nutrientes necesarios para la reproduccin de la rata algodonera crespa (Sigmodon hispidus). La riqueza en el pasto S. spartinae (siete especies de roedores) fue similar a la de la pradera costea (seis especies ms tres roedores no nativos) con S. hispidus y el ratn cosechero (Reithrodontomys fulvescens) numricamente dominantes en ambas comunidades. La densidad de S. hispidus fue ms alta en el pasto S. spartinae probablemente reflejando la alta biomasa del pasto, sin embargo, la falta de cobertura del suelo contribuy al poco tiempo de residencia. Baja residencia e incremento en la densidad durante los meses de incremento en densidad en la pradera costea indicaron que S. spartinae funcion como un hueco dispersante de la pradera costea adyacente. La densidad y la residencia de R. fulvescens fueron ms bajas en S. spartinae probablemente reflejando la baja calidad del habitat por falta de estructura vertical. La baja biomasa de las dicotiledneas en S. spartinae parece limitar la disponibilidad de nutrientes, pero los nutrientes en los tallos verdes de 5. spartinae fueron suficientes para el crecimiento y reproduccin de S. hispidus.
40263724|Indirect estimates of rates of survival for juvenile songbirds typically are used in population modeling. However, survival in the initial post-fledging period can vary widely among species and indirect estimates may yield misleading information regarding populations. This is especially important when considering species that are experiencing population declines, like the western bluebird (Sialia mexicana). I calculated estimates of survival of western bluebirds during the post-fledging dependent (1-7 days after fledge) and semi-dependent (8-20 days after fledge) periods using radiotelemetry on 27 fledglings in a restoration-treated forest of ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) in northern Arizona. Daily rates of survival were 0.96 (dependent)-0.99 (semi-dependent) in the post-fledging period and yielded an overall rate of survival of 0.64. Predation was the primary cause of mortality. Fledglings moved ca. 100 m from the nest during the dependent period and averaged 200-300 m from the nest in the semi-dependent period. Movements were highly variable in the semi-dependent period. My results provide the first estimate of survival for fledgling western bluebirds. Because my estimates were relatively high compared to other species of songbirds, and patterns of movement suggested that adequate foraging resources were available, my estimates should be treated as rates of survival for bluebirds in good habitat when considering populations from a variety of habitats. /// Estimaciones indirectas de tasas de supervivencia de aves cantoras juveniles tpicamente se usan para modelar poblaciones. Sin embargo, la supervivencia en el primer perodo despus del emplumamiento puede variar extensamente entre especies y las estimaciones indirectas pueden rendir informacin incorrecta con respecto a poblaciones. Esto es importante especialmente cuando se consideran especies que estn sufriendo decrementos poblacionales, como la del azulejo garganta azul (Sialia mexicana). Usando radiotelemetra en 27 volantones, calcul estimaciones de supervivencia de S. mexicana despus del emplumamiento durante el periodo dependiente (1-7 das despus de volar) y semidependiente (8-20 das despus de volar) en un bosque bajo restauracin del pino ponderoso (Pinus ponderosa) en el norte de Arizona. Las tasas de supervivencia por da fueron de 0.96 (dependiente) a 0.99 (semidependiente) en el periodo despus del emplumamiento y produjeron una tasa de supervivencia agrupada de 0.64. La depredacin fue la causa principal de mortandad. Los volantones se desplazaron aproximadamente 100 m desde el nido durante el perodo dependiente y promediaron 200-300 m desde el nido durante el perodo semidependiente. Los movimientos variaron mucho en el perodo semidependiente. Mis resultados proporcionan la primera estimacin de supervivencia despus del emplumamiento para S. mexicana. Porque mis estimaciones fueron relativamente altas comparadas con otras especies de aves cantoras, y los patrones de desplazamiento sugirieron que recursos adecuados del forraje estuvieron disponibles, mis estimaciones se deben tratar como tasas de supervivencia para S. mexicana en buen hbitat al considerar a poblaciones de una variedad de hbitats.
40263725|Sympatry can create special dynamics between populations and impact management strategies for each species. We estimated size and overlap of home ranges and core areas of sympatric female mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and white-tailed deer (O. virginianus) in west-central Texas. We captured 50 mule deer and 53 white-tailed deer, fitted them with radiocollars, and monitored them during 2000-2002. Average ( SE) size of home range of mule deer in spring was 3.9  0.32 km, while that of white-tailed deer was 4.32  0.77 km; sizes of home ranges in summer were 2.82  0.32 and 2.08  0.23 km, respectively. Interspecific overlap of home range between seasons was similar to intraspecific overlap. Overlap in core area also was similar within and between species during summer, but interspecific overlap in core area was less during spring. /// La simpatra entre especies puede crear dinmicas particulares en sus poblaciones y afectar la efectividad de estrategias de manejo. Estimamos el tamao y el traslape de los rangos de hogar y de las reas nucleares entre hembras del venado bura (Odocoileus hemionus) y venado cola blanca (O. virginianus) en el centro-oeste de Texas. Capturamos 50 venados bura y 53 venados cola blanca, les colocamos radio-collares y los monitoreamos del 2000-2003. El promedio del rango de hogar (ES) durante la primavera fue de 3.9  0.32 km en el venado bura mientras que el del venado cola blanca fue de 4.32  0.77 km; durante el verano fue de 2.82  0.32 y 2.08  0.23 km, respectivamente. El traslape interespecfico del rango de hogar entre estaciones fue similar al traslape intraespecfico. El traslape de reas nucleares fue tambin similar entre individuos de la misma especie que entre las dos especies durante el verano, pero el traslape interespecfico fue menos en la primavera.
40263726|Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) have been declining throughout the western United States and white-tailed deer (0. virginianus) have remained stable or increased. In areas of sympatry, it is important to understand dynamics between the two species. Crockett County, Texas, provided an area where the two species occurred sympatrically at relatively high densities. In summers 2004-2005, we captured adult deer and fitted them with radiocollars and vaginal-implant transmitters. We monitored vaginal-implant transmitters to record date of parturition, to locate birth sites, and to aid in capture of neonates. We captured 101 neonates (68 mule deer and 33 white-tailed deer). We observed 45 parturition sites and 249 day-time bedding sites of fawns. Parturition in mule deer began ca. 1 month after white-tailed deer. Birth sites of mule deer were at higher elevations and on steeper slopes than those of white-tailed deer. Mule deer gave birth under junipers (Juniperus) more often than did white-tailed deer. Our best model used elevation, height of horizontal hiding cover, type of vegetation, canopy shrub, and an interaction between vegetation type and canopy shrub to differentiate between bedding sites of fawns of mule deer and white-tailed deer. Fawns of mule deer bedded at higher elevations in shorter hiding cover and commonly under junipers, whereas fawns of white-tailed deer commonly bedded under honey mesquite (Prosopis glandubsa) or in herbaceous vegetation. Our data show that fawns partition habitat in a manner similar to adults in this area. /// Las poblaciones de venado bura (Odocoileus hemionus) en el oeste de Norteamrica han disminuido mientras que las del venado cola blanca (O. virginianus) permanecen estables o han aumentado. Es importante entender las dinmicas entre las dos especies en reas donde estas coexisten. El condado de Crockett, Texas, facilit un rea donde las dos especies coexistieron con densidades relativamente altas. En los veranos de 2004-2005, capturamos hembras adultas y les colocamos radio-collares e implantes vaginales con trasmisores de radio. Monitoreamos los implantes vaginales con trasmisor para registrar la fecha de parto, localizar el sitio del parto, y ayudar a capturar a los neonatos. Capturamos 101 neonatos (68 de venado bura y 33 de venado cola blanca), observamos 45 sitios de parto y 249 sitios con hechaderos diurnos de cervatos. Los partos de las venadas bura comenzaron aproximadamente 1 mes despus que los de las venadas cola blanca y los sitios de parto de las venadas bura estuvieron a mayor elevacin y en lugares ms escarpados que los sitios de las venadas cola blanca. Las venadas bura parieron debajo de enebros (Junperas) ms frecuentemente que las venadas cola blanca. Nuestro mejor modelo utiliz la elevacin del terreno, altura de la cobertura horizontal, tipo de vegetacin, especie de arbusto del dosel, y la interaccin entre el tipo de vegetacin y especie de arbusto del dosel para diferenciar entre los hechaderos de cervatos de venado bura y de venado cola blanca. Los cervatos de venado bura utilizaron hechaderos a mayor altitud, con menor cobertura, y normalmente debajo de enebros, mientras que los cervatos de venado cola blanca frecuentemente usaron hechaderos debajo de mesquites (Prosopis glandubsa) o en vegetacin herbcea. Nuestros datos muestran que los cervatos se dividen el habitat de manera similar a los venados adultos en esta rea.
40263727|We investigated the impact of disturbance by humans on distribution of small mammals at the northeastern edge of the Chihuahuan Desert We determined composition of small-mammal communities and characteristics of soil at water tanks, roadsides, and open range. Nitrogen and moisture in soil did not vary across sites, but compaction of soil, vegetational cover, and composition of small-mammal communities did vary. Small mammals were distributed as expected with the exception of four omnivores (Mus musculus, Neotoma micropus, Peromyscus leucopus, and P. maniculatus), which were at higher density on sites with high disturbance by humans and relatively low vegetational cover. Activity of humans may impact some small mammals by drawing them to areas that contain high levels of human-generated resources. /// Investigamos el impacto de disturbios humanos en la distribucin de mamferos pequeos en el borde noreste del desierto de Chihuahua. Determinamos la composicin de las comunidades de mamferos pequeos y las caractersticas del suelo alrededor de los tanques de agua, en las orillas de los caminos y en el campo abierto. El nitrgeno y la humedad en el suelo no variaron entre sitios, mientras que la compactacin del suelo, la cubierta vegetal y la composicin de las comunidades de mamferos pequeos s variaron. Los mamferos pequeos se distribuyeron como se esperaba con la excepcin de cuatro omnvoros (Mus musculus, Neotoma micropus, Peromyscus leucopus y P. maniculatus), los cuales se encontraron con densidades mayores en sitios de mucho disturbio humano y relativamente poca cubierta vegetal. Es posible que la actividad humana impacte a algunos mamferos pequeos por atraerlos a las reas que contienen altos niveles de recursos generados por humanos.
40263728|Point-quarter, random-pairs, 0.004-ha-arm-length-rectangle, and 0.04-ha-circle methods for sampling density, diameters, and size categories were used in an oak-hickory (Quercus-Carya) woodlot. Results from three trials for each method were compared to actual density of trees determined from a total count of trees in the woodlot. With respect to accuracy per time spent, the 0.04-ha circle was the best method and the point-quarter method was the worst. These findings improve on previous studies because, for the first time, repeated trials in the field were employed. /// Los mtodos punto-cuarto, pares al azar, rectngulo de 0.004 ha de brazo largo, y crculos de 0.04 ha fueron utilizados para muestrear la densidad, el dimetro y la categora de tamao en una parcela de roble y nuez (Quercus-Carya). Los resultados de tres rplicas para cada mtodo fueron comparados con la densidad real de rboles que fue determinada por el conteo completo del nmero de rboles en la parcela. Si se hace una relacin entre la exactitud del mtodo y el tiempo invertido, el crculo de 0.04 ha fue el mejor mtodo y el mtodo de punto-cuarto el peor. Estos hallazgos mejoran estudios previos porque es la primera vez que fueron realizadas rplicas en el campo.
40263729|We compiled 355 observations of foraging events of peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus) in Grand Canyon, downstream from Glen Canyon Dam on the Colorado River during 1973-1995, and documented abundance of prey, foraging behavior, and success in foraging. Peregrine falcons attempted to forage on 44 species, including 40 species of birds: swifts and swallows (29%), waterfowl (Anseriformes, Podicipediformes, and similar birds, 27%), other waterbirds (waders and other large, non-anseriform waterbirds, 11%), bats (10%), large wasps (8%), and other species (15%). Frequency of foraging during the breeding season was positively related to overall abundance of prey, but relative intensity of predation (ratio of relative frequency of attack on a species to mean abundance of that species) increased on most species of prey in the usually turbid lower reach, where prey were less abundant. Air-to-air strikes were most common (94% of 271 cases for which data were available), followed by air-to-water strikes (4%), and air-to-ground strikes (2%). Tandem attacks occurred in 43% of cases. Overall foraging success was 52%, and was highest on large wasps (100%) and bats (87%), intermediate on large waterbirds (63%), swifts, swallows, and small terrestrial birds (42%), and waterfowl (40%), and lowest on belted kingfishers (Ceryle alcyon; 18%) and small shorebirds (<3%). Foraging success was related to abundance of prey and number of co-foraging falcons, and was negatively related to relative body mass of prey. Most dietary biomass was derived from waterfowl (64%) and large waterbirds (25%), whereas swallows and swifts contributed only 3%. The low and variably turbid segment near the dam had greater abundance of prey and lower relative intensity of predation compared to the usually turbid segment downstream, but distribution and overall frequency and success of foraging by peregrine falcons were not affected by regulation of flow. /// Recopilamos 355 observaciones de forrajeo del halcn peregrino (Falco peregrinas) en el Gran Can ro abajo de la represa del Glen Can en el ro Colorado de 1973 a 1995, y documentamos la abundancia de las presas, el comportamiento del forrajeo del halcn, y su xito. Los halcones intentaron forrajear en 44 especies de presas, incluyendo 40 especies de aves: vencejos y golondrinas (29%), aves acuticas como Anseriformes, Podicipediformes y aves parecidas (27%), otras aves acuticas como aves zancudas y otras grandes que no son Anseriformes (11%), murcilagos (10%), avispas grandes (8%), y otras especies (15%). La frecuencia de forrajeo durante la poca de reproduccin fue proporcional a la abundancia total de presas, pero la intensidad relativa de depredacin (cociente de la frecuencia relativa de ataque a una especie a la abundancia media de la misma especie) aument en la mayora de las especies en la cuenca baja, donde el agua est casi siempre ms turbia, y donde hay menos presas. Los ataques aire-a-aire fueron ms comunes (94% de 271 casos anotados), seguidos por ataques aire-a-agua (4%), y ataques aire-a-tierra (2%). Ataques en tndem ocurrieron en 43% de los casos. El xito de forrajeo en total fue 52%, y fue mayor con avispas grandes (100%) y murcilagos (87%); intermedio con aves acuticas grandes no Anseriformes (63%), vencejos, golondrinas, y pjaros terrestres pequeos (42%), aves acuticas como Anseriformes, Podicipediformes y aves parecidas (40%); y el ms bajo con el martn pescador (Ceryle alcyon; 18%) y playeros pequeos (<3%). El xito de forrajeo fue proporcional a la abundancia de las presas y el nmero de halcones colaborando, y relacionado negativamente con la masa relativa de la presa. La mayora de la biomasa diettica vino de aves acuticas como Anseriformes, Podicipediformes y aves parecidas (64%) y aves acuticas grandes no Anseriformes (25%), mientras que golondrinas y vencejos aportaron solamente 3%. El segmento del ro cerca a la represa con variable pero menos turbidez tuvo una abundancia mejor de presas y una baja intensidad relativa de depredacin comparada al tramo ro arriba que fue usualmente ms turbio, pero la distnbucin del halcn peregrino o su frecuencia y xito de forrajeo no fueron afectados por el control de la corriente.
40263730|Small mammals and ground-dwelling invertebrates were sampled seasonally on active colonies of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus), Phostoxin-treated colonies, and non-colonized short-grass prairie to assess potential impacts of Phostoxin on non-target species in the Texas Panhandle. Eleven species of small mammals were captured. Northern grasshopper mice (Onychomys leucogaster) were more abundant on active prairie dog colonies, whereas abundances of North American deermice (Peromyscus maniculatus) and plains harvest mice (Reithrodontomys montanus) did not differ among treatments. Total abundance of small mammals and relative abundances of other species did not differ among active colonies, Phostoxin-treated colonies, and non-colonized sites. Ground-dwelling invertebrates were more abundant on active colonies than on Phostoxin-treated colonies or non-colonized sites. Results of this study indicate that short-term impacts of control of prairie dogs with Phostoxin on non-target small mammals and ground-dwelling invertebrates is limited, but may be significant for individual species. Additionally, in short-grass prairie ecosystems, vegetative alterations made by prairie dogs may not influence populations of small mammals as much as in tall or mixed-grass prairies. However, active colonies were used more by northern grasshopper mice and ground-dwelling invertebrates, indicating that this habitat is important for these species. /// Se muestrearon en diferentes estaciones del ao mamferos pequeos e invertebrados cavadores en colonias activas de perritos de las praderas de cola negra (Cynomys ludovicianus), en colonias con tratamiento de Phostoxin, y en pradera de pasto corto sin perritos de las praderas para evaluar los impactos potenciales en especies ms que C. ludovicianus con el uso de Phostoxin en el noroeste de Texas. Se capturaron once especies de mamferos pequeos. La abundancia del ratn saltamontes (Onychomys leucogaster) fue mayor en las colonias activas de perritos de las praderas, mientras que la abundancia del ratn venado (Peromyscus maniculatus) y del ratn cosechador (Reithrodontomys montanus) no variaron entre tratamientos. La abundancia total de mamferos pequeos y la abundancia relativa de otras especies no difirieron entre las colonias activas, colonias tratadas con Phostoxin y sitios sin perritos. Invertebrados cavadores fueron ms abundantes en colonias activas que en colonias tratadas con Phostoxin o en sitios sin perritos. Los resultados de este estudio indican que los impactos a plazo corto del control de perritos de las praderas con Phostoxin en otras especies de mamferos pequeos e invertebrados cavadores son limitados, pero pueden ser significativos para algunas especies. Adicionalmente, en ecosistemas de pradera de pasto corto, las alteraciones en la vegetacin hechas por perritos de las praderas pueden no influir tanto en las poblaciones de mamferos pequeos como en pradera de pasto alto o de pastos mixtos. Sin embargo, las colonias activas fueron usadas ms por el ratn saltamontes e invertebrados cavadores, indicando que este hbitat es importante para estas especies.
40263731|Understanding what drives population dynamics is a key tool for conserving species in fragmented habitats. We evaluate hypotheses explaining fluctuations in populations of flat-tailed horned lizards, Phrynosoma mcallii, in the Coachella Valley, California. This species has the smallest range of any horned lizard in the United States. Within portions of its range, there are potentially conflicting activities, such as suburban development, agriculture, off-road recreation, and activities along the international border. We analyzed fluctuations in populations with respect to resource variables during 2001-2007. Unlike results for other desert lizards, population dynamics of horned lizards did not correlate positively with rainfall. Compaction of sand, abundance of harvester ants, annual rainfall, and annual cover of plants all contributed to parsimonious models, but contributions of these variables varied between year and criteria for the dependent variable (occurrence of horned lizard). We also examined demographic characteristics of increasing and decreasing populations. Rates of growth of hatchlings and age at sexual maturity provided a mechanistic explanation for the observed population dynamics, and were consistent with a food-limiting hypothesis. /// Comprender lo que dirige la dinmica de las poblaciones es un conocimiento clave para conservar especies en hbitats fragmentados. Aqu evaluamos hiptesis para explicar las fluctuaciones poblacionales de la lagartija cornuda de cola plana, Phrynosoma mcalli, en el Coachella Valley, California. Esta especie tiene el menor rango de distribucin de todas las especies de lagartos cornudos de los Estados Unidos de Amrica y en algunas reas de su rango de distribucin hay actividades potencialmente conflictivas como el desarrollo suburbano, la agricultura, la recreacin con vehculos todo terreno y actividades fronterizas internacionales. Analizamos las fluctuaciones poblacionales con relacin a las variables de los recursos durante 2001-2007. A diferencia de los resultados en otras lagartijas desrticas, la dinmica poblacional de las lagartijas cornudas no se correlacion positivamente con la lluvia. Tanto la compactacin de la arena, la abundancia de hormigas cosechadoras, la precipitacin anual, y la cobertura de las plantas anuales contribuyeron a los modelos de parsimonia; sin embargo, la contribucin de estas variables vari entre aos y el criterio de la variable dependiente (ocurrencia de lagartijas cornudas). Tambin examinamos las caractersticas demogrficas de las poblaciones en incremento y decremento. Las tasas de crecimiento de las cras y la edad a la madurez sexual proporcionaron una explicacin mecnica a la dinmica poblacional observada y fueron consistentes con la hiptesis del alimento limitado.
40263732|The segment of the Rio Grande between International Falcon Reservoir and Del Rio, Texas (distance ca. 350 km), remains largely unexplored ornithologically. We surveyed nocturnal birds monthly during February-June 1998 at 19 stations along the Rio Grande (n = 6) and at upland stock ponds (n = 13) in Webb County, Texas. We conducted 10-min point counts (n = 89) after sunset and before moonset. Four species of owls and five species of nightjars were detected. Nightjars, as a group, were nearly five times more abundant (mean number/count = 2.63) than owls (mean number = 0.55). The most common owl, the great horned owl (Bubo virginianus), had a mean number of 0.25/point count. The mean for elf owls (Micrathene whitneyi) was 0.16/point count. The most common nightjars were the common poorwill (Phalaenoptilus nuttallii; 1.21 /point count) and lesser nighthawk (Chordeiles acutipennis; 1.16/point count). Survey sites on the river supported more species (mean = 2.2) than did upland stock ponds (mean = 1.4). However, only one species (common pauraque, Nyctidromus albicollis) showed a preference for the river sites. Our results establish this segment of the Rio Grande in southern Texas as an area of high diversity of nightjars in the United States, matched (in numbers of species) only by southeastern Arizona and southwestern New Mexico. /// El segmento del ro Grande/ro Bravo entre el embalse internacional Falcn y Del Ro, Texas (aproximadamente 350 km), permanece en gran parte inexplorado ornitolgicamente. Monitoreamos aves nocturnas cada mes entre febrero y junio de 1998 en 19 estaciones a lo largo del ro Bravo (n = 6) y en estanques artificiales de agua (n = 13) en el condado de Webb, Texas. Condujimos conteos de puntos de 10 min (n = 89) despus de la puesta del sol y antes de la puesta de la luna. Se detectaron cuatro especies de buhos y cinco especies de tapacaminos. El grupo de tapacaminos result cinco veces ms abundante (promedio de individuos/conteo = 2.63) que los buhos (promedio de individuos/conteo = 0.55). El buho ms comn, el buho cornudo (Bubo virginianus), tuvo una media de 0.25 individuos/conteo. La media para el buho enano (Micrathene whitneyi) fue de 0.16 individuos/conteo. Los tapacaminos ms comunes fueron el tapacamino tevi (Phalaenoptilus nuttallii; 1.21 individuos/conteo) y el chotacabra (Chordeiles acutipennis; 1.16 individuos/ conteo). Los sitios de monitoreo a lo largo del ro tuvieron ms especies (media = 2.2) que los estanques artificiales (media = 1.4). Sin embargo, slo una especie (el pauraque, Nyctidromus albicollis) mostr una preferencia por los sitios ribereos. Nuestros resultados establecen este segmento del ro Grande en el sur de Texas como un rea de alta diversidad de tapacaminos en los Estados Unidos, igualada (en nmero de especies) solamente por el sureste de Arizona y el suroeste de Nuevo Mxico.
40263733|California towhees (Pipilo crissalis) defend all-purpose, type-A territories throughout the year and are believed to remain on home ranges for successive breeding seasons. I present the first data regarding use of space by California towhees from a long-term study of a color-banded population. I examined individual site-fidelity to home ranges over 5 breeding seasons and combined this information with radiotelemetry data to assess sizes of home ranges and use of habitats. California towhees exhibited strong site-fidelity to breeding territories. All (n = 31) individuals located >10 times in a season were site-faithful across years for up to 4 years. Average size of home range was 0.83  0.31 ha. Size of home range did not differ by sex, and paired birds occupied similar home ranges. All home ranges were composed of a variety of habitats, including open field, dense forest, and riparian areas. California towhees used habitat types differentially throughout the breeding season, and nested in a variety of plants. Prior to and following nesting, they were most often in open areas that provided good forage. While nesting, males and females were most often in dense vegetation. Because they defend type-A territories year-round, potentially for their entire lives, California towhees may benefit from settling on home ranges with high diversity of habitats that can meet fluctuating needs for resources. /// Los rascadores californianos (Pipilo crissas) defienden territorios para todo uso, tipo-A, a travs del ao y se piensa que permanecen en su rango de hogar en pocas reproductivas sucesivas. Presento los primeros datos del uso del espacio por los rascadores californianos basados en un estudio de largo plazo de una poblacin marcada con anillos de colores. Examin la fidelidad al rango de hogar de individuos durante 5 pocas reproductivas y combin esta informacin con datos de radiotelemetra para evaluar el uso de habitat y el tamao del rango de hogar. Los rascadores californianos mostraron alta fidelidad a sus territorios reproductivos. Todos los individuos localizados >10 veces en una temporada (n = 31) mostraron fidelidad a su territorio por 4 aos. El tamao promedio del rango de hogar fue 0.83  0.31 ha. El tamao del rango de hogar no vari de acuerdo con el sexo y las parejas ocuparon rangos de hogar muy similares. Todos los rangos de hogar incluyeron una variedad de hbitats, incluyendo campos abiertos, bosques cerrados y zonas ribereas. Los rascadores californianos utilizaron estas clases de habitat de manera diferencial a travs de la poca reproductiva y anidaron en una variedad de plantas. Antes y despus de anidar se encontraban ms frecuentemente en reas abiertas que provean buen forrajeo. Mientras tenan huevos o cras, los machos y las hembras se encontraban ms frecuentemente en vegetacin densa. Dado que los rascadores de californianos defienden sus territorios tipo-A todo el ao, posiblemente a lo largo de toda su vida, se pueden beneficiar eligiendo rangos de hogar con una alta diversidad de habitat donde pueden satisfacer sus necesidades fluctuantes por recursos.
40263734|We studied the spider fauna of Ash Meadows National Wildlife Refuge on six collecting expeditions during October 2004-August 2005. Spiders collected during these field trips produced 81 species in 60 genera and 26 families. Faunal diversity was dominated by Salticidae (13 species in seven genera), followed by Lycosidae (eight species in seven genera), Araneidae (eight species in seven genera), Gnaphosidae (seven species in seven genera), and Philodromidae (four species in four genera), with Thomisidae, Linyphiidae, Dictynidae, Theridiidae, Miturgidae, Pholcidae, and Tetragnathidae represented by two to seven species in one to three genera each. A total of 14 other families was represented by single species in single genera. The family Lycosidae was at more sites than any other family and it was the family with the largest number of individuals collected. We report an overall landscape-based density of species of only 0.96 species/km2 and, although 45.7% of species were represented by single specimens, we conclude that the fauna is depauperate. This is consistent with other low-elevation desert and playa-dominated habitats in North America, and might be attributable to limited formation of soil. /// Estudiamos la fauna de las araas de Ash Meadows National Wildlife Refuge en seis expediciones de colecta de octubre 2004 a agosto 2005. Encontramos 81 especies de 60 gneros y 26 familias. La diversidad fue dominada por Salticidae (13 especies en siete gneros), seguida por Lycosidae (ocho especies en siete gneros), Araneidae (ocho especies en siete gneros), Gnaphosidae (siete especies en siete gneros), y Philodromidae (cuatro especies en cuatro gneros), con Thomisidae, Linyphiidae, Dictynidae, Theridiidae, Miturgidae, Pholcidae y Tetragnathidae representadas por dos a siete especies de uno a tres gneros cada una. Un total de 14 familias fue representado por una sola especie en un solo gnero. La familia Lycosidae se encontr en ms sitios que ninguna otra familia y tuvo los ms individuos colectados. En la escala de todo el paisaje, registramos una densidad de especies de slo 0.96 especies/km y aunque 45.7% de las especies fueron representadas por un solo espcimen, concluimos que la fauna es pobre en diversidad. Esto es consistente con otros hbitats desrticos de bajas alturas y los dominados por lagos playas en Norteamrica y quizs se atribuye a la formacin limitada de suelo.
40263735|Reproductively mature male Dionda diaboli, the Devils River minnow, exhibited agonistic and courtship behavior in presence of conspecifics under laboratory conditions. Dionda diaboli spawned over small trays of gravel and did not use a cavity or a crevice. Devils River minnows were noncommunal, territorial, broadcast spawners and agonistic behavior consisted of chases, parallel swims, lateral displays, circle swims, and head butts. Courtship behavior consisted of a male approaching a female and pushing her down toward the substrate (male-female approach) prior to spawning. Spawning did not occur until a male had established dominance in the hierarchy. /// Machos reproductivamente maduros de Dionda diaboli, carpa diabla, demostraron comportamiento agonstico y del cortejo en la presencia de conespecficos bajo condiciones de laboratorio. Dionda diaboli desov encima de grava en pequeas bandejas, y no utiliz agujeros ni grietas. Las carpas diabla fueron territoriales, no comunales y dispersaban sus desoves. Su comportamiento agonstico consisti en perseguir, nadar en paralelo, nadar en crculos, chocar con la cabeza y dar exhibiciones laterales. Comportamiento de cortejo consisti en un macho acercndose a una hembra y empujndola para abajo hacia el sustrato antes del desove (acercamiento macho-hembra) . El proceso de desove no ocurri hasta que un macho haba establecido su dominancia en la jerarqua.
40263736|We report on two specimens of Rhadinaea myersi from Mexico. One of these represents a new record for the state of Guerrero, and both extend the known distribution and confirm the presence of the species in southern Oaxaca, where it has not been collected since the 1970s. /// Se reportan dos ejemplares de Rhadinaea myersi de Mxico. Uno representa un nuevo registro para el estado de Guerrero, y ambos amplan el rango de distribucin conocido para esta especie y confirman su presencia en el sur del estado de Oaxaca, donde no haba sido colectada desde la dcada de 1970.
40263737|Box turtles are opportunistic omnivores, and consume a wide variety of fruits. Therefore they might play an important role in dispersal of seeds of a variety of plants. We described the diversity of seeds recovered from feces of Terrapene Carolina and T. ornata and made comparisons between them. There was a moderate level of dietary overlap based upon diversity of seeds in the feces. Terrapene Carolina had a significantly higher species richness of seeds in its feces than T. ornata. Additionally, we documented seeds of four plants (Celtis, Passiflora, Phytolacca americana, and Platanus occidentalis) that previously were not known to be consumed or dispersed by box turtles. /// Las tortugas de caja son omnvoras oportunistas, y comen una amplia variedad de frutas. Por lo tanto tienen quizs un papel importante en la dispersin de semillas de varias especies de plantas. Describimos la diversidad de semillas recuperadas de excrementos de Terrapene carotina y de T. amata y realizamos comparaciones entre estas especies. Se encontr un nivel moderado de la superposicin diettica basada en la diversidad de semillas en las heces. Terrapene carotina tuvo una significativa mayor riqueza de especies de semillas en sus heces que T. amata. Adems, documentamos semillas de cuatro plantas (Celtis, Passiflora, Phytolacca americana, y Platanus occidentalis) previamente no registradas como consumidas ni dispersadas por tortugas caja.
40263738|Male and female specimens of a chordeumatid milliped, Branneria bonoculus, were collected in March 2003 from leaf litter in deciduous and pine forest from Lake O' the Pines, Marion Co., Texas. The species was described originally from an unknown site in Nevada County, Arkansas, which is ca. 145 km northeast of the new locale. As such, this represents only the second time B. bonoculus has been reported in the literature, and more importantly, we document the discovery of a family of millipeds that is new for Texas. /// Especmenes de machos y hembras de un milpis chordeumtida, Branneria bonoculus, se recolectaron en marzo de 2003 de la hojarasca en bosques caducifolios y de pinos del Lake O' the Pines, condado de Marin, Texas. La especie fue descrita originalmente de un sitio desconocido en el condado de Nevada, Arkansas, que est aproximadamente a 145 km noreste de la nueva localidad. Como tal, esto representa slo la segunda vez que B. bonoculus ha sido reportado en la literatura, y ms importante an, documentamos el descubrimiento de una nueva familia de milpis para Texas.
40263739|Nest predation involving a California kingsnake (LampwpeUis getula califomiae) and two fledglings of least Bell's vireo (Vireo bellii pusillus) was observed along the San Luis Rey River in northern San Diego County, California. The kingsnake was discovered consuming a fledgling when the adults were observed mobbing the snake. The kingsnake then proceeded to systematically search for the second fledgling by traveling out and back from the nest multiple times over the next 15 min, each time in a new direction, traveling ca. 6-10 m before returning to the nest. The snake then found the original roosting branch of the surviving fledgling and proceeded quickly toward the fledgling that had moved ca. 15 m away. The kingsnake traveled this distance in ca. 2 min and killed and consumed the last fledgling. While California kingsnakes have been reported to feed on birds and bird eggs, this systematic searching behavior has not been described previously. /// Observ un acontecimiento de depredacin de dos volantones del nido de vireo de bell (Vireo bellii pusius) por la serpiente real de California (LampropeUis getula califomiae) cerca del ro San Luis Rey en la parte norte del condado de San Diego, California. Descubr la serpiente comiendo el primer volantn cuando los adultos estuvieron atacando a la serpiente. Subsecuentemente la serpiente sigui buscando sistemticamente al segundo volantn por medio de muchas idas y vueltas del nido durante quince minutos, cada vez en una nueva direccin, encontrndose a 6-10 m del nido antes de volver. La serpiente entonces encontr la percha original del volantn todava vivo y se acerc rpidamente al volantn que haba movido aproximadamente a 15 m de distancia. La serpiente atraves esta distancia en acerca de dos minutos, y mat y consumi el ltimo volantn. Aunque hay registros de que serpientes reales de California se alimentan de pjaros y sus huevos, esta conducta de buscar a la presa sistemticamente no ha sido descrita previamente.
40263740|On 10 August 2005, a Mount Lyell shrew (Sorex lyelli) was collected at 3,630 m elevation in Humphreys Basin, John Muir Wilderness Area, Fresno County, California. This specimen extends the known range of S. lyelli to the south by 55 km, increases its upper elevational range by ca. 500 m, and is the first alpine record. Prior to our finding, S. lyelli had been collected only in Mariposa, Mono, and Tuolomne counties, at elevations of 2,100-3,156 m, typically in sub-alpine herbaceous vegetation along fast-running streams associated with riparian shrubs, and less frequently in thickets of sub-alpine sagebrush. This record is from an alpine lakeshore well above treeline, with vegetation limited to sedges, grasses, and forbs. This specimen represents the highest elevational record for Sorex in the Sierra Nevada of California. /// El 10 de agosto del 2005, un espcimen de la musaraa de Mount Lyell (Sorex lyelli) fue colectado a 3,630 m sobre el nivel del mar en la cuenca Humphrey de la John Muir Wilderness rea, condado de Fresno, California. Este ejemplar ampla la distribucin conocida de S. lyelli al sur cerca de 55 km, aumentando tambin el lmite elevacional ca. 500 m, y es el primer registro alpino. Antes de nuestro registro, S. lyelli slo se haba colectado en los condados de Mariposa, Mono y Tuolomne, entre los 2,100 m y 3,156 m de altura, tpicamente en la vegetacin herbcea subalpina adyacente a arroyos rpidos, asociada con arbustos ribereos, y con menor frecuencia en los matorrales subalpinos de Artemisa. Este registro proviene de la orilla de un lago alpino muy arriba del lmite de las comunidades arbreas, y con vegetacin limitada a juncias, pastos, y plantas herbceas. Este ejemplar representa el registro de mayor elevacin para Sorex en la Sierra Nevada, California.
40263741|An updated distribution for the endemic, predaceous diving beetle, Heterostemuta sulphuria, consists of four new locations in the Ozark and Boston Mountain ecoregions of Arkansas. To date, a total of 32 specimens have been collected from these locations that are primarily spring-water influenced, small, shaded aquatic systems. Two populations are recorded for currently protected areas; Hobbs State Park-Conservation Area and Sherfield Cave (effluent stream). The addition of H, sulphuria to the biota list from Sherfield Cave further highlights conservation efforts focused on this unique cave and stream system. The habitat from which H. sulphuria has been collected includes stream margins within sediment-free gravel and cobble substrate, under leaf material covering bedrock, and within small, shallow depressions and crevices in bedrock. From current surveys, H. sulphuria has been the brightly colored member of the Hydroporinae collected from these permanent aquatic habitats and co-occurs only with the genera SanfiUppodytes and Hydrocolus. /// Una distribucin actualizada del escarabajo buceador depredador endmico, Heterostemuta sulphuria, consiste de cuatro nuevos sitios en las ecoregiones montaosas Ozark y Boston en Arkansas. Hasta la fecha, un total de 32 especmenes han sido recolectados en estos sitios, que son principalmente sistemas acuticos pequeos y sombreados sujetos a la influencia de manantiales. Dos poblaciones estn documentadas para reas actualmente protegidas: Hobbs-State Park-Conservation rea y Sherfield Cave (un riachuelo emergente). La adicin de H. sulphuria a la lista de biota de Sherfield Cave destaca an ms los esfuerzos de conservacin enfocados en este sistema nico de cuevas y arroyos. El habitat del cual H. sulphuria ha sido recolectado incluye orillas de arroyos dentro de sustrato de grava y adoqun sin sedimento, bajo material de hojas sobre cimiento y dentro de hondonadas y grietas pequeas y poco profundas en cimiento. De muestras actuales, H. sulphuria ha sido el miembro de los Hydroporinae de colores brillantes recolectado en estos hbitats permanentes y acuticas y que se ha encontrado que slo ocurre conjuntamente con los gneros Sanfippodytes y Hydrocolus.
40263742|On 27 October 2004, in Sierra de las Minas Biosphere Reserve, Guatemala, we observed a strong- billed woodcreeper (Xiphocolaptes promeropirhynchus) chase and attempt to capture a mouse. The mouse jumped out of a bromeliad the woodcreeper was probing seconds earlier. If the woodcreeper was attempting to capture the mouse to eat it then it might have been opportunistically using a locally abundant food source although consumption of mammalian prey by woodcreepers has not been documented. /// E1 27 de octubre del 2004, en la Reserva Biosfera Sierra de las Minas, Guatemala, observamos un individuo del trepatroncos, Xiphocolaptes promeropirhynchus, perseguir e intentar atrapar un ratn. El ratn sali de una bromelia que el trepatroncos estaba explorando segundos antes. Si el trepatroncos estaba intentando capturar el ratn para comerlo, probablemente estaba utilizando de manera oportunista un recurso alimenticio localmente abundante, aunque el consumo de mamferos como presas por parte de trepatroncos no ha sido documentado.
40263743|Described husbandry practices for pocket gophers are rare. Antiquated practices do not satisfy current husbandry standards, requiring investigators to modify methods to meet the needs of their research. We report techniques for housing Baird's pocket gopher (Geomys breviceps) that sustain health of captives, encourages natural behaviors, and meet necessary husbandry requirements. Twenty-six G. breviceps were housed at the University of Arkansas at Litde Rock over an 18-month period. A diet consisting of fresh vegetation promoted apparently normal development, and parasitic treatments were effective. Individuals were housed within simulated tunnel systems constructed of multiple cages and plastic tubing and allowed to structure their environment with a combination of topsoil, Bermuda hay, and pine wood chips. Animals readily adapted to this caging system, which can be easily disassembled and sanitized for routine maintenance. Given the effectiveness of these techniques at sustaining G. breviceps, they may be applicable to other species of pocket gophers. /// Descripciones de los mtodos para el cuidado en cautiverio de las tuzas son raros. Las prcticas anticuadas no satisfacen los estndares actuales del cuidado en cautiverio, lo que hace que los investigadores tengan que modificar los mtodos para llenar las necesidades de sus investigaciones. Reportamos tcnicas para albergar la tuza Geomys breviceps que mantienen la salud en cautiverio, alientan el desempeo de conductas naturales y llenan los requisitos necesarios del cuidado de los animales en cautiverio. Se albergaron a veintisis G. breviceps en la Universidad de Arkansas en Little Rock por un periodo de 18 meses. Una dieta consistiendo de vegetacin fresca aparentemente promovi un desarrollo normal y los tratamientos contra parsitos fueron efectivos. Se albergaron dentro de sistemas simulados de tneles, construidos de jaulas mltiples y tubos plsticos, lo que permiti que su medio ambiente se estructurara con una combinacin de tierra natural, heno de Bermuda y viruta de madera de pino. Los animales se adaptaron fcilmente a este sistema de jaulas, mismo que puede ser desarmado y limpiado sin dificultad para darle el mantenimiento rutinario. Dada la efectividad de estas tcnicas para mantener a G. breviceps, las mismas pueden ser aplicadas a otras especies de tuzas.
40263744|We report on a late-summer, above-ground aggregation of foothill yellow-legged frogs (Rana boylii) in the Diablo Range, Santa Clara County, California. Our observation provides the first published account of aggregation in this species. /// Reportamos una agregacin no subterrnea del sapo Rana boylii que ocurri durante la ltima parte del verano en la sierra del Diablo, condado de Santa Clara, California. Nuestra observacin provee el primer registro publicado de agregacin en esta especie.
40588571|The Mojave Desert is one of the driest and hottest deserts in North America. One would expect that birds living in this desert would be specialists adapted to survive such an environment. However, most of the avifauna present in the Mojave Desert range into cooler, more-humid regions. We report observations of horned larks (Eremophila alpestris) using burrows of the desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) during summer as refugia from hot above-ground temperatures. We show that horned larks appear selective of the micro-environment they choose and that burrows are the coolest, most-humid, microsites available. By using burrows of desert tortoises, horned larks may reduce evaporative water loss by 65% and they may avoid physiological stress, or potentially death. Additional research should investigate the importance of burrows of desert tortoises to other species as it is likely to provide a key microhabitat to many species that reside in the Mojave Desert. El desierto Mojave es uno de los ms secos y calientes en Norteamrica. Se pensara que los pjaros que viven en este desierto son especialistas adaptados para soportar ese ambiente. Sin embargo, la mayora de la avifauna del desierto Mojave tiene una distribucin geogrfica que se extiende a regiones ms frescas y hmedas. Reportamos observaciones de alondras cornudas (Eremophila alpestris) usando madrigueras de tortugas del desierto (Gopherus agassizii) durante el verano como refugio de las temperaturas altas en la superficie del suelo. Enseamos que las alondras cornudas parecen discriminatorias del micro-ambiente que escogen, y que las madrigueras son los sitios ms frescos y hmedos disponibles. Al utilizar las madrigueras de las tortugas del desierto, las alondras cornudas pueden reducir la prdida evaporatoria del agua hasta 65%, y pueden evitar estrs fisiolgico, o potencialmente la muerte. Investigacin adicional debe evaluar la importancia de las madrigueras de las tortugas del desierto para otras especies porque es probable que provean un micro-hbitat a muchas especies que habitan en el desierto Mojave.
40588572|Structure of assemblages offish at 97 sites using 12 metrics was examined. Of 176 species known from Oklahoma, 118 were collected. Few species had a statewide distribution and most were limited to the eastern one-half of the state. Number of species in a collection was 2-28 with a mean of 15. In four of 12 indices analyzed, means for the Canadian River drainage were significantly lower than those of the Red River drainage. No significant difference existed between drainages of the Arkansas and Red rivers or the Arkansas and Canadian rivers. Comparing groups from west to east showed five of the 12 mean indices for the panhandle group were significantly less than those for the rest of the state. For north to south groups, means for two of the 12 indices for the southern group were significantly larger than means for the rest of the state and significantly larger than 75% of the state for three other indices. Principal-components analysis of standardized means of indices for geographical blocks indicated that areas of the state could be similar in structure of assemblage, although they may contain different species. Examinamos la estructura de ensamblajes de peces en 97 sitios usando 12 ndices. De 176 especies conocidas de Oklahoma, 118 fueron colectadas. Pocas especies tenan una distribucin en todo el estado y la mayora estuvieron limitadas a la mitad este del estado. El nmero de especies en una coleccin fue de 2-28 con un promedio de 15. En cuatro de 12 ndices analizados, el promedio para el drenaje del ro Canadian fue significativamente ms bajo que del drenaje del ro Red. No existi ninguna diferencia significativa entre los drenajes de los ros Arkansas y Red o los ros Arkansas y Canadian. Comprar grupos del oeste al este demostr que los promedios de cinco de los 12 ndices para el grupo del "mango de la sartn" fueron significativamente menos que los del resto del estado. Comparando grupos del norte al sur, los promedios de dos de los 12 ndices para el grupo meridional fueron significativamente ms grandes que los del resto del estado y significativamente ms grandes que el 75% del estado para tres otros ndices. Un anlisis de componentes principales de promedios estandarizados de ndices para bloques geogrficos indic que las reas del estado podran ser similares en la estructura de ensamblajes, aunque pueden contener diferentes especies.
40588573|We studied the reproductive cycle of Sceloporus dugesii from Ptzcuaro, Michoacn, Mexico. Males and females reached sexual maturity at the same snout-vent length (50 mm). Reproductive activity of both sexes was asynchronous, similar to other species of the torquatus group. Testicular recrudescence was July-August and maximum activity was September-December. Vitellogenesis occurred during early September to late March, with ovulation occurring November-December, and embryonic development was observed December-May. Mean clutch size was 4.4  0.34. Clutch size was not correlated with snout-vent length of females. The reproductive cycle of S. dugesii is similar to other montane species of the torquatus group. Our study showed that S. dugesii shares some reproductive characteristics with its sister species. Estudiamos el ciclo reproductor de Sceloporus dugesii de Ptzcuaro, Michoacn, Mxico. Los machos y las hembras alcanzaron la madurez sexual a la misma longitud hocico-cloaca (50 mm). La actividad reproductora de ambos sexos fue asincrnica, similar a otras especies del grupo torquatus. La recrudescencia testicular fue de julio a agosto y la mxima actividad de septiembre a diciembre. La vitelognesis ocurri de inicios de septiembre a fines de marzo, con la ovulacin entre noviembre y diciembre, y el desarrollo embrionario fue observado de diciembre a mayo. El tamao medio de la camada fue de 4.4  0.34 neonatos. El tamao de la carnada no estuvo correlacionado con la longitud hocico-cloaca de la hembra. El ciclo reproductor de S. dugesii es similar al de otras especies de montaa del grupo torquatus. Nuestro estudio muestra que S. dugesii comparte algunas caractersticas reproductoras con sus especies hermanas.
40588574|The state of Colima in western Mexico is part of the transition zone between the two biogeographic regions of America, the Nearctic and the Neotropical. The state has particularly high mammalian diversity (128 species) and is in the area with the greatest concentration of endemic species in Mexico (25%). As a result, there is intrinsic scientific interest in the study of mammals of Colima. However, the mammalian fauna has received only limited attention to date. There is no published comprehensive inventory of mammals of Colima and only a few detailed reports of the species that occur at any given location within the state have been published. As a contribution to the knowledge of mammals present in Colima, data were compiled on the mammals of Ejido Ranchitos, municipality of Minatitln, and the species were characterized. We recorded 35 species, 9 monotypic and 26 polytypic, gathering information on natural history and reproductive condition for each. These represent 27.3% of species of mammals known from Colima and 7.4% of the total for Mexico. Eleven species were endemic, comprising 31.4% of species captured for Ejido Ranchitos and 6.5% of the endemic species for Mexico. Nonvolant mammals exhibited three reproductive patterns: continual polyestrous (10 species, 28.6%), seasonal polyestrous (4, 11.4%), and seasonal monoestrous (3, 8.6%). Reproductive patterns for bats were seasonal monoestrous (7 species, 20.0%), asynchronic continual polyestrous (7, 20.0%), bimodal polyestrous (2, 5.7%), continual polyestrous (1, 2.9%), and asynchronic monoestrous (1, 2.9%). Three of the species we examined (Heteromys spectabilis, Neotoma mexicana tenuicauda, and Peromyscus hylocetes) have not been reported previously for Colima. Overall, Ejido Ranchitos supports a diverse fauna of small-sized and medium-sized mammals. El estado de Colima se localiza en el oeste de Mxico y forma parte de la zona de transicin entre las dos grandes regiones biogeogrficas del continente americano, la Nertica y la Neotropical. Este estado tiene una alta biodiversidad de mamferos (128 especies) y se encuentra dentro del rea con mayor concentracin de especies endmicas (25%) de Mxico. Como resultado, existe un inters cientfico en el estudio de los mamferos de Colima. Sin embargo, esta fauna ha recibido poca atencin a la fecha y no existe un inventario completo. Slo unos pocos reportes detallados de las especies en ciertas localidades en el estado han sido publicados. Por esto, deseamos contribuir al conocimiento de los mamferos del estado de Colima y para tal fin realizamos un inventario del ejido Ranchitos, municipio de Minatitln. Registramos 35 especies, 9 monotpicas y 26 politpicas, y reunimos informacin de su historia natural y condicin reproductiva. Estas especies representan 27.3% de las especies conocidas de mamferos para Colima y 7.4% del total para Mxico. Once especies fueron endmicas y representan 31.4% del total capturado y 6.5% de las especies endmicas de Mxico. Los mamferos no voladores exhibieron tres patrones reproductivos: poliestro continuo (10 especies, 28.6%), poliestro estacional (4, 11.4%) y monoestro estacional (3, 8.6%), mientras que los murcilagos presentaron cinco patrones reproductivos: monoestro estacional (7 especies, 20.0%), poliestro continuo asincrnico (7, 20.0%), poliestro bimodal (2, 5.7%), poliestro continuo (1, 2.9%) y monoestro asincrnico (1, 2.9%). Capturamos tres nuevas especies (Heteromys spectabilis, Neotoma mexicana tenuicauda, y Peromyscus hylocetes) para el estado de Colima. En conclusin, el ejido Ranchitos alberga una gran diversidad de mamferos de tamao pequeo y mediano.
40588575|During a 2-year study, we documented eight species of bats using bridges in the lower Rio Grande Valley of New Mexico. Of 17 bridges surveyed, 15 (88%) contained day-roosting bats and  8 bridges (47%) contained maternity colonies with one or more species, including the Arizona myotis (Myotis occultus), Yuma myotis (Myotis yumanensis), and Brazilian free-tailed bat (Tadarida brasiliensis). The pallid bat (Antrozous pallidus), big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus), silver-haired bat (Lasionycteris noctivagans), California myotis (Myotis californiens), and fringed myotis (Myotis thysanodes) roosted infrequently in bridges. Use of bridges by day-roosting bats differed seasonally, with most individuals occupying bridges April-October. During November-March, relatively few individuals of only three species (L. noctivagans, M. yumanensis, and T. brasiUensis) occupied bridges. Individuals roosted at many sites in bridges, but 99.9% roosted in narrow cracks and crevices. A total of 36,629 day-roosting bats was counted, with 99.8% observed in bridges constructed from timbers and 0.2% observed in I-beam bridges constructed from concrete, metal, or both. Paucity of bats in I-beam bridges reflected lack of narrow spaces. Our study demonstrates that some bridges represent important roosting sites for bats in southern New Mexico. Bridges throughout the southwestern United States likely serve similar lifehistory functions for bats and should be managed as a resource, especially those occupied by maternity colonies or large numbers of individuals. Durante un estudio de dos aos se documentaron ocho especies de murcilagos que buscaron refugio bajo los puentes en el valle bajo del ro Grande de Nuevo Mxico. De los 17 puentes que se observaron, 15 (88%) albergaban murcilagos que se refugian durante el da y  8 de los puentes (47%) albergaron colonias de maternidad con una o ms especies que incluyeron el murcilago de Arizona (Myotis oceultus) , el murcilago pardo de Yuma (Myotis yumanensis), y el murcilago de cola libre (Tadarida brasiliensis) . Las siguientes especies raras veces se refugiaron en los puentes: el murcilago plido (Antrozous pallidus), el murcilago moreno (Eptesicus fuscus), el murcilago pelo plateado (Lasionycteris noctivagans), el murcilago de California (Myotis californicus) y el murcilago de cola orlada (Myotis thysanodes). Se diferenci estacionalmente el uso de los puentes por los murcilagos de dormideros diurnos, con la mayora de los individuos ocupando los puentes entre abril y octubre. Entre noviembre y marzo relativamente pocos individuos de slo tres de las especies (T. brasiUensis, M.yumanensis y L. noctivagans) ocuparon los puentes. Los individuos se refugiaron en varios sitios de los puentes, pero 99.9% se quedaron en las grietas y las fisuras angostas. Se contaron un total de 36,629 murcilagos de dormideros diurnos, con 99.8% observado en puentes construidos de vigas y 0.2% observado en puentes que se construyeron de cemento, metal o una combinacin de los dos. La escasez de murcilagos en stos ltimos refleja la falta de los espacios angostos. Este estudio demuestra que algunos puentes representan sitios importantes como dormideros para los murcilagos en el sur de Nuevo Mxico. Es probable que los puentes por todo el suroeste de los Estados Unidos se utilicen para funciones semejantes de historia de vida por los murcilagos. Por esta razn se deben manejar como recurso, especialmente los que se ocupan por las colonias de maternidad o grandes nmeros de individuos.
40588576|Understanding how mining operations influence use of habitat and movements by bighorn sheep (Outs canadensis) is critical to long-term management of populations that inhabit areas in and around mining operations. We studied responses of a population of desert bighorn sheep to a surface-mining operation in the Silver Bell Mountains, Pima County, Arizona. We incorporated two study periods with different levels of activity at the mine: closure (1993-1995) and operation (2003-2005). We captured and radiocollared  22 bighorn sheep in each period and monitored size of home ranges, size of core areas, and use of the mine. Home ranges and core areas of adult males during the breeding season were larger during closure than during operation. During the non-breeding season, there was evidence that home ranges of adult males were larger during closure compared to when the mine was in operation. Core areas of adult males were similar in size during the non-breeding season of both periods. During the breeding season, adult males used the mine more while the mine was in operation than during closure. During the non-breeding season, however, adult males did not use the mine more during either period. Home ranges and core areas of females were not different in size during both seasons and periods of closure and operation of the mine. During both seasons, females used the mine more during operation than during closure. Overall, the population of desert bighorn sheep used an active mine more than it did when the mine was closed. Entender el efecto de las operaciones mineras en el uso de habitat y los movimientos del borrego cimarrn (Ovis canadensis) es fundamental para manejar a largo plazo a las poblaciones que habitan en estas reas y los alrededores donde se desarrolla este tipo de actividades. Estudiamos la respuesta de una poblacin de borrego cimarrn frente a la actividad minera en la superficie en las montaas Silver Bell en el condado de Pima, Arizona. Incorporamos dos perodos de estudio con diferentes niveles de actividad minera: sin actividad (1993-1995) y en operacin (2003-2005). Capturamos y colocamos radiocollares en  22 borregos cimarrn en cada perodo y monitoreamos el tamao de los rangos de hogar, el tamao de las reas ncleo y el uso de la mina. Los rangos de hogar y las reas ncleo de los machos adultos durante la estacin reproductiva fueron mayores en el perodo sin actividad que durante el perodo con operaciones mineras. Durante la estacin no reproductiva, los rangos de hogar de los machos adultos fueron evidentemente mayores en el perodo sin actividad comparado con el perodo de actividad minera. Las reas ncleo de los machos adultos fueron similares en tamao durante la estacin no reproductiva de ambos perodos. Durante la estacin reproductiva, los machos adultos usaron ms la mina mientras sta estuvo en actividad que cuando estuvo cerrada. Sin embargo, durante la estacin no reproductiva no hubo diferencias en el uso de la mina entre ambos perodos. Los rangos de hogar y las reas ncleo de las hembras no fueron diferentes en tamao durante ambas estaciones y ambos perodos de actividad. Durante ambas estaciones, las hembras usaron ms la mina durante el perodo de actividad que cuando la mina estuvo cerrada. En general, la poblacin de borregos cimarrones utiliz ms una mina activa que una mina cerrada.
40588577|Vegetational development in areas covered by volcanic ash from the Paricutin Volcano shows striking differences among types of plant cover at the time of the eruption. Forests affected by deposition of ash recovered soon after the eruption (1943-1952), but areas lacking vegetation at the time of the eruption today lack a closed canopy. We tested the effect of adding organic matter, straw, and a combination of organic matter and straw on recruitment of seedlings in a sand deposit formed in agricultural fields covered by ash from the Paricutin Volcano in Michoacn, Mexico. Number of seedlings varied significantly among treatments. At the end of the rainy season, plots with organic matter showed the highest number of seedlings (154  20 seedlings/m) followed by plots with organic matter and straw (82  7 seedlings/m), plots with straw (68  14 seedlings/m), and control plots (21  13 seedlings/m). In contrast, plots with organic matter and straw accumulated significantly more biomass (61.7  10.8 g/m) than organic-matter plots (14.5  3.1 g/m) or mulched plots (9.9  3.1 g/m). Clustering of experimental plots indicated that species composition of seedlings differed between plots with organic matter and straw, and plots with straw or organic matter. Our results suggest that the nature of organic matter that accumulates in soil can have a significant effect on composition of the seedling community, and support Eggler's hypothesis that lack of organic matter prevents development of vegetation in sandy substrates of volcanic origin. El desarrollo de la vegetacin en reas cubiertas por ceniza volcnica del volcn Paricutin muestra diferencias contrastantes entre tipos de cobertura vegetal al momento de la erupcin. Los bosques afectados por la deposicin de ceniza se recuperaron rpidamente despus de la erupcin (1943-1952), pero reas que carecan de vegetacin al momento de la erupcin hoy en da carecen de una cobertura vegetal cerrada. Probamos el efecto de agregar materia orgnica, paja y la combinacin de ambos en el reclutamiento de plntulas en un depsito de arena formado en un sitio agrcola cubierto por ceniza volcnica de la erupcin del volcn Paricutin en Michoacn, Mxico. El nmero de plntulas varo significativamente entre los tratamientos; al terminar la poca de lluvias, las parcelas con materia orgnica mostraron el nmero de plntulas ms alto (154  20 plntulas/m) seguidas de parcelas con materia orgnica y paja (82  7 plntulas/m), parcelas con paja (68  1 4 plntulas/m), y parcelas control (21  13 plntulas/m). En contraste, las parcelas con materia orgnica y paja acumularon significativamente ms biomasa (61.7  10.8 g/m) que parcelas con materia orgnica (14.5  3.1 g/m) o parcelas con paja (9.9  3.1 g/m). El agrupamiento de las parcelas experimentales indic diferentes composiciones de especies de plntulas en dos grupos: las parcelas con ambas materia orgnica y paja, y las parcelas de paja o materia orgnica. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la naturaleza de la materia orgnica que se acumula en el suelo puede tener un efecto significativo en la composicin de la comunidad de plntulas, y apoyan la hiptesis de Eggler, que la falta de materia orgnica es la que impide el desarrollo de la vegetacin en sustratos arenosos de origen volcnico.
40588578|Wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo) occur intermittently throughout Trans-Pecos, Texas. In the lower desert of the Trans-Pecos, turkeys are associated strongly with the limited riparian habitat where roosting habitat is found. We initiated a study to document microhabitat characteristics of roost sites in the Trans-Pecos region of Texas. We measured microhabitat characteristics (canopy cover, density of stand, visual obstruction, understory herbaceous cover, height of tree, diameter at breast height (dbh), height-to-lowest live branch, slope, and aspect) at 15 winter roosts and 15 random sites in three habitats in the Trans-Pecos region: ponderosa pine (Pinusponderosa), live oak (Quercus virginiana), and sugar hackberry (Ceitis laevigata). All roost sites were <1 km from riparian corridors and located in riparian regions. Among the three habitats, large diameters and height of trees were a prerequisite for roost trees in live oak and sugar hackberry habitat, where live oaks used as roost trees were larger (mean dbh = 57.78 cm) than non-roosting trees (mean dbh = 39.13 cm). Roost trees in live oak habitat had a greater height than trees in random sites (13.58 and 11.28 m, respectively). Sugar hackberries used as roost trees had larger dbh, height, height-to-lowest live branch, and canopy cover than nonroost trees in random sites. Due to the sparse density of trees, we recommend that riparian corridors with potential roosting habitat be protected throughout the Trans-Pecos. In addition, exotic species (e.g., Tamarix) should be controlled and native riparian habitats should be preserved. Los pavos silvestres (Meleagris gallopavo) se encuentran en forma intermitente a lo largo de la regin Trans-Pecos, Texas. En el desierto inferior del Trans-Pecos, los pavos estn fuertemente asociados con el limitado habitat ripario en donde se encuentran sus dormideros. Se llev a cabo un estudio para documentar las caractersticas de microhabitat de los dormideros en la regin del Trans-Pecos de Texas. Se cuantificaron las caractersticas de microhbitat (cobertura del dosel, densidad vegetal, obstruccin visual, cobertura herbcea del sotobosque, altura de los rboles, dimetro a la altura del pecho (dbh), altura hasta la rama viva ms baja, pendiente y aspecto) en 15 dormideros invernales y 15 sitios elegidos al azar en tres tipos de habitat en la regin de Trans-Pecos: pino ponderosa (Pinusponderosa) , encino (Queris virginiana) y CeUis laevigata. Todos los dormideros estaban a<1 km de los corredores riparios y ubicados en las regiones riparias. Entre los tres habitats, dimetros y alturas mayores de los rboles fueron un requisito para dormideros en el habitat de encino y de Ceitis, donde los rboles de encino utilizados como dormideros fueron ms grandes (dbh media = 57.78 cm) que los rboles no utilizados como dormideros (dbh media = 39.13 cm). Los rboles dormideros en el habitat de encino tuvieron una mayor altura que los de sitios elegidos al azar (13.58 y 11.28 m, respectivamente). Los rboles dormideros Ceitis tuvieron mayor dbh, altura, altura a la rama viva ms baja, y cobertura del dosel que los rboles no dormideros en los sitios elegidos al azar. Debido a la baja densidad arbrea, recomendamos que se protejan los corredores riparios con habitats de dormideros potenciales a lo largo de la regin Trans-Pecos. Adems, las especies exticas (por ej., Tamarix) deben controlarse y los habitats riparios nativos deben preservarse.
40588579|We studied reproduction and sexual dimorphism of AspidosceUs gularis from an arid environment in Guadalczar, San Luis Potos, Mexico. Males reached sexual maturity at a larger snoutvent length (55. 2 mm) than females (52. 4 mm). Males and females were similar in size, but males had larger heads and longer hindlimbs than females. Reproductive activity of both sexes was synchronous, similar to other species of the genus AspidosceUs. Testicular recrudescence occurred February-March and maximum activity was March-October, and regression was in November. Vitellogenesis occurred February-September, with ovulation and fertilization occurring in June. Mean size of clutch of oviductal eggs was 3.0  0.32. Size of clutch was not related to snout-vent length. Proximal factors influenced timing and intensity of reproduction in A. gularis. Estudiamos la reproduccin y dimorfismo sexual de AspidosceUs gularis de un ambiente rido de Guadalczar, San Lus Potos, Mxico. Los machos alcanzaron la madurez sexual a una longitud hocico-cloaca ms grande (55.2 mm) que las hembras (52.4 mm). Machos y hembras fueron similares en tamao del cuerpo, pero los machos presentaron la cabeza ms grande y los miembros posteriores ms largos que las hembras. La actividad reproductiva de ambos sexos fue sincrnica, similar a otras especies del gnero AspidosceUs. La recrudescencia testicular ocurri de febrero a marzo y la mxima actividad fue de marzo a octubre, y la regresin en noviembre. La vitelognesis ocurri de febrero a septiembre, ocurriendo la ovulacin y fertilizacin en junio. El tamao medio de la puesta de huevos en el oviducto fue de 3.0  0.32. El tamao de la puesta no se relacion con la longitud hocicocloaca. Los factores prximos influyeron en la sincronizacin e intensidad de la reproduccin en A. gularis.
40588580|We studied natural history and ecology of Thamnophis rufipunctatus at San Francisco Hot Springs, Catron County, New Mexico. Gee minnow traps were more effective at sampling adults than opportunistic captures. Females were larger than males in snout-vent length and mass, but males had longer tails. Although females were larger, rates of growth for juvenile males and females were similar. In 1996, the population was ca. 7.2 adult snakes/ha; however, we did not detect snakes in subsequent visits. Thamnophis rufipunctatus was most likely to be captured at sites with steep riverbed slope and large rocks of uniform size. Diet was exclusively fish, of which a large proportion was the introduced Gambusia affinis. This population of T. rufipunctatus was one of the most robust in the United States and it has completely disappeared in <10 years. Estudiamos la historia natural y la ecologa de Thmnophis rufipunctatus en las aguas termales San Francisco del condado Cartron, Nuevo Mxico, EEUU. Las trampas de pececillos marca Gee fueron ms eficaces que las capturas oportunistas en el muestreo de los adultos. Las hembras fueron ms grandes que los machos en longitud hocico-cloaca y peso, pero los machos tuvieron colas ms largas. Aunque las hembras fueron ms grandes, las tazas de crecimiento de los juveniles fueron parecidas entre machos y hembras. En 1996, la poblacin era de aproximadamente 7.2 serpientes adultas por hectrea, sin embargo no detectamos serpientes en visitas posteriores. Thamnophis rufipunctatus fue capturada en trampas con mayor probabilidad en sitios con cauce de fuerte pendiente y con rocas grandes de tamao uniforme. Su dieta consisti exclusivamente de peces, de los cuales una gran porcentaje era el pez introducido, Gambusia affinis. Esta poblacin era una de las ms robustas en los EEUU y ha desaparecido completamente en <10 aos.
40588581|We surveyed mercury concentrations of aquatic macroinvertebrates collected from fishless ponds on the Lyndon B. Johnson National Grassland, Wise County, Texas. Macroinvertebrates representing eight taxonomie groups were collected from 13 ponds in June 2006. Significant differences in concentrations of mercury were detected among taxonomie groups, with the omnivore Hydrophilidae and the predator Notonectidae containing lowest and highest concentrations of mercury, respectively. We also detected significant differences in concentrations of mercury in macroinvertebrates among ponds. Concentrations of mercury of some macroinvertebrates were above recommended thresholds for consumption by birds. Our study suggests that fishless ponds can produce large populations of mercury-contaminated macroinvertebrates that could be harmful to aquatic and terrestrial consumers. Se evalu la concentracin de mercurio en colecciones de macroinvertebrados acuticos provenientes de estanques sin peces del Lyndon Johnson National Grassland, condado de Wise, Texas, USA. Macroinvertebrados representando ocho grupos taxonmicos fueron recolectados en junio del 2006 en 13 estanques. Se detectaron diferencias significativas en las concentraciones de mercurio entre los grupos taxonmicos, con el omnvoro Hydrophilidae y el depredador Notonectidae conteniendo la ms baja y la ms alta concentracin de mercurio, respectivamente. Tambin se detectaron diferencias significativas en las concentraciones de mercurio en los macroinvertebrados entre los estanques. La concentracin de mercurio en algunos macroinvertebrados estuvo por encima de los lmites para el consumo por aves. Nuestro estudio sugiere que los estanques sin peces pueden producir grandes poblaciones de macroinvertebrados contaminados con mercurio que podran ser dainos para consumidores terrestres y acuticos.
40588582|We examined contents of alimentary canal from pond-reared Rio Grande silvery minnows (Hybognathus amarus; n = 183) to determine frequency of occurrence for foods consumed among small (9-20 mm), medium (21-35 mm), and large fish (36-75 mm). Among 183 fish, 19% (n = 34) of alimentary canals were empty. Of those with food items (n = 149), insects were the most common and were present in 66% offish, followed by formulated feed (60%), diatoms (40%), cladocerans (36%), rotifers (35%), filamentous algae (32%), bryozoan statoblasts (19%), copepods (11%), protozoa (9%), plant material (9%), ostracods (6%), detritus (5%), and sand (4%). Among size groups, small and medium fish consumed a greater variety of foods than large fish. Information on contents of alimentary canal of pond-reared Rio Grande silvery minnows will aid in refining culture techniques for this federally listed endangered species. Examinamos los contenidos de los estmagos de los peces Hybognathus amaras (n = 183) provenientes de criaderos para determinar la frecuencia de ocurrencia de tipos de comida consumidos por peces pequeos (9-20 mm), medianos (21-35 mm), y grandes (36-75 mm). Entre 183 peces, 19% (n = 34) de los estmagos estuvieron vacos. Entre los que tenan comida (n = 149), insectos fueron ms comunes, encontrndose en 66% de los peces, seguidos por alimento comercial (60%), diatomas (40%), cladceros (36%), rotferos (35%), algas filamentosas (32%), briozoos estatoblastos (19%), coppodos (11%), protozoarios (9%), material de plantas (9%), ostrcodos (6%), detritus (5%), y arena (4%). Entre grupos de tamao, los peces pequeos y medianos consumieron una variedad mayor de comida que los peces grandes. Informacin sobre contenidos de estmagos de H. amarus provenientes de criaderos ayudar a refinar tcnicas de cultivo para esta especie listada federalmente como en peligro de extincin.
40588583|The Mexican gray wolf (Cants lupus baileyi) was extirpated from Arizona and New Mexico in the 1970s. In 1998, Mexican gray wolves were translocated into the east-central Arizona portion of the Blue Range Wolf Recovery Area. One measure of success of the translocation is the ability of the Mexican gray wolf to capture native prey. Our objectives were to determine diet of wolves during summers 2005 and 2006, and contrast diet in areas that were grazed by livestock seasonally to areas grazed annually. We collected scats, identified contents from hair and bone fragments, and estimated diet by calculating percentage biomass of prey consumed. Elk (Cervus elaphus) comprised 80.3% of diet of the Mexican gray wolf. Other prey included domestic cattle (16.8%), deer (Odocotleus; <1%), squirrels (<1%), other rodents (2%), and lagomorphs (<1%). In areas of year-around grazing, 21% more livestock were consumed, compared to areas grazed seasonally. El lobo gris mexicano (Canis lupus baileyi) fue extirpado de Arizona y de Nuevo Mxico en la dcada de 1970. En 1998, los lobos mexicanos fueron trasladados a la porcin este-central de Arizona del rea de recuperacin del lobo "Blue Range Wolf Recovery Area." Una medida del xito del traslado es la capacidad del lobo gris mexicano de capturar las presas nativas. Nuestros objetivos fueron determinar la dieta de los lobos durante los veranos del 2005 y 2006, y compararla en reas que fueron pastadas estacionalmente por ganado con reas pastadas durante todo el ao. Recogimos excretas, identificamos el contenido por medio de fragmentos del pelo y hueso, y estimamos la dieta calculando el porcentaje de biomasa de presa consumida. Los alces (Cervus elaphus) abarcaron el 80.3% de la dieta del lobo gris mexicano. Otras presas incluyeron ganado (16.8%), venados (Odocoileus; <1%), ardillas (<1%), otros roedores (2%), y lagomorfos (<1%). Veintin por ciento ms ganado fue consumido en reas de pastoreo constante comparado a las reas de pastoreo estacional.
40588584|We used two mitochondrial and eight nuclear microsatellite gene loci to compare genetic diversity and genetic affinities of white suckers (Catostomus commersonii) introduced into the Rio Grande of northern New Mexico to putative source populations in the Pecos and Canadian rivers of northeastern New Mexico. Estimates of genetic diversity based on allelic identity were similar among localities from all three drainages, whereas samples of non-native white suckers from the Rio Grande exhibited greater genealogical diversity. We attributed increased genetic diversity in the Rio Grande to separate introductions from 2 genetically distinct source populations, only one of which appeared to be from either the Pecos River or the Canadian River. There also was a divergent haplotype in the Pecos River, consistent with the introduction of a non-native lineage into this native population. Utilizamos dos marcadores mitocondriales y ocho marcadores microsatlites nucleares para comparar la diversidad gentica y las afinidades genticas entre el matalote blanco (Catostomus commersonii) introducido en el ro Bravo en el norte de Nuevo Mxico a las supuestas poblaciones de origen en los ros Pecos y Canadian del noreste de Nuevo Mxico. Las estimaciones de la diversidad gentica basadas en la identidad allica fueron similares entre localidades de las tres cuencas, mientras que muestras del matalote blanco no nativo del ro Bravo mostraron una mayor diversidad genealgica. Atribuimos el incremento de la diversidad gentica en el ro Bravo a introducciones independientes de 2 poblaciones de fuentes, genticamente distintas, de las cuales slo una pareca provenir ya sea del ro Pecos o del ro Canadian. Tambin encontramos un haplotipo divergente en el ro Pecos, lo cual es consistente con la introduccin de un linaje no nativo en esta poblacin nativa.
40588585|Parasites represent an element within natural systems that can elucidate interactions between their hosts and the environment. We collected and examined ectoparasites (80 samples) and fecal samples for endoparasites (81 samples) from 82 swift foxes (Vulpes velox) captured or collected in the Oklahoma Panhandle during summer and winter 2003-2004 and summer and autumn 2004. Six taxa of external parasites and nine taxa of internal parasites were identified. Overall prevalence of swift foxes infested with external parasites was 99% (range, 1-90% by individual parasite), which included four species of fleas and two species of ticks. Overall prevalence of swift foxes infected with internal parasites was 68% (range, 4-35% by species of parasite), including six nematodes, one cestode, one protozoan, and one mite. We observed two new external parasites not previously recorded for swift foxes, Spilopsyllus inaequalis and Dermacentor vanabilis. More males than females were infected with Toxocara. Our results were similar to previously published reports of parasites from swift foxes in southeastern Colorado, northwestern Texas, eastern New Mexico, and the Oklahoma Panhandle, suggesting that this canid might be infected with a similar community of parasites across its range in the southwestern United States. Los parsitos son un elemento ms de los ecosistemas que puede ser usado para elucidar interacciones entre sus hospedadores y el medio en que estos viven. Para ampliar el limitado conocimiento sobre los parsitos que infectan al zorro veloz (Vulpes velox) , recogimos y examinamos ectoparsitos (80 muestras) y materia fecal para endoparsitos (81 muestras) de 82 zorros veloces atrapados o recogidos en la zona del Panhandle de Oklahoma durante el verano y el invierno de 2003-2004 y el verano y el otoo de 2004. Se encontraron seis taxones de parsitos externos y nueve taxones de parsitos internos. Encontramos que el 99% de los zorros veloces estaba infectado con alguna especie de parsito externo. Diferentes especies de parsitos externos (cuatro especies de pulgas y dos especies de garrapatas) presentaron porcentajes de infeccin variables entre el 1 y el 90%. Parsitos internos infectaron el 68% de los zorros veloces estudiados. En este caso, los porcentajes de infeccin por diferentes especies (seis nematodos, uno cestodo, uno protozorio, y uno caro) oscilaron entre el 5 y 35%. Observamos dos parsitos externos nuevos no registrados previamente para el zorro veloz, Spilopsyllus inaequalis y Dermacentor vanabilis. Ms machos que hembras mostraron infeccin por Toxocara. Nuestros resultados son similares a los informes sobre parsitos previamente publicados para el zorro veloz en el sudeste de Colorado, noroeste de Texas, este de Nuevo Mxico, y la zona del Panhandle de Oklahoma, lo que sugiere que este cnido puede estar infectado por una comunidad de parsitos similar a lo largo de su rea de distribucin en el sudoeste de los Estados Unidos.
40588586|Allen's big-eared bat (Idionycteris phyllotis) inhabits much of the southwestern USA, but has not been documented in Colorado. We recorded echolocation calls consistent with I. phyotis near La Sal Creek, Montrose County, Colorado. Based on characteristics of echolocation calls and flight behavior, we conclude that the echolocation calls described here were emitted by I. phyllotis and that they represent the first documentation of this species in Colorado. El murcilago-mula de Allen (Idionycteris phyllotis) habita gran parte del sudoeste de USA, pero no ha sido documentado en el estado de Colorado. Grabamos las seales de ecolocacin consistentes con I. phyllotis cerca de La Sal Creek, condado de Montrose, en Colorado. Basados en caractersticas de las seales de ecolocacin y el comportamiento de vuelo, concluimos que las seales de ecolocacin descritas aqu fueron emitidas por I. phyllotis y que representan el primer registro de esta especie en el estado de Colorado.
40588587|During an 18-month sampling effort along the Ro Sabinas in Coahuila, Mexico (December 2004- August 2006), we observed eight confirmed and three potentially new breeding records, nine new non-breeding records, and eight rare records of birds for Coahuila. We also identified the Ro Sabinas as a potential new breeding site in the state for five species. These data illustrate the considerable conservation value of this understudied area in northern Mexico. Durante un esfuerzo de muestreo de 18 meses a lo largo del ro Sabinas, Coahuila, en el norte de Mxico (de diciembre 2004 hasta agosto 2006), observamos ocho nuevos registros reproductivos confirmados y tres potenciales, nueve nuevos registros no-reproductivos, y ocho registros raros de aves para Coahuila. Tambin identificamos al ro Sabinas como un nuevo sitio reproductivo potencial en el estado para cinco especies. Estos datos ilustran el notable valor de esta rea pobremente estudiada en el norte de Mxico como sitio de conservacin.
40588588|We present a list of noteworthy distributional records for 12 species of birds in the Mexican state of Guerrero. One (Dendroica stnata) is new for the state, and the remaining either significantly expand their known geographic and seasonal distribution or add information about their presence in the state. Se presenta una lista de registros de distribucin notables para 12 especies de aves en el estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Uno de los cuales (Dendroica striata) es nuevo para el estado y los restantes extienden considerablemente su rea de distribucin tanto geogrfica como estacional o son registros que confirman su presencia en el estado.
40588589|The silver redhorse Moxostoma anisurum is listed as threatened and considered critically imperiled (SI) in Arkansas by the Nature Conservancy. Only 12 records comprising 23 specimens of this species from five rivers are known from the state. A recent record is from the Strawberry River in Lawrence County during 2007; it and other records in Arkansas are reviewed. In 2007, 26 species of fish were collected with the silver redhorse, including the first vouchered specimens of the pealip redhorse Moxostoma pisolabrum and the pallid shiner Hybopsis amnis from the Strawberry River. El pez chupn blanco, Moxostoma anisurum, est listado como amenazado y considerado como en peligro crtico (SI) en Arkansas por The Nature Conservancy. Slo 12 registros entre 23 especmenes de esta especie provenientes de cinco ros son conocidos en el estado. Un registro reciente es del ro Strawberry en el condado de Lawrence del ao 2007; ste y los dems registros de Arkansas son revisados. En 2007, 26 especies de peces fueron recolectados con la redhorse de Plata, incluyendo los primeros ejemplares del Moxostoma pisolabrum y del Hybopsis amnis del ro Strawberry.
40588590|Acquiring water is a challenge for desert animals, and organisms inhabiting arid regions have evolved morphological, physiological, and behavioral traits to maintain an appropriate water balance. On four occasions, I observed rain-harvesting or observed behaviors suggestive of rain harvesting in a population of speckled rattlesnakes (Crotalus mitchellii) in the Mojave Desert of southwestern North America. Snakes collected rainwater on the surface of their bodies and subsequently drank it. Speckled rattlesnakes also drank rainwater that accumulated in structural features of their habitat (e.g., surface of rocks). My observations suggest that C. mitchellii may engage in rain-harvesting when thermal conditions are not optimal (i.e., during cold temperatures). For instance, rattlesnakes presumably emerge from hibernation to take advantage of rainwater. Adquirir agua es una demanda importante para animales del desierto, y los organismos de zonas ridas han evolucionado caractersticas morfolgicas, fisiolgicas y de comportamiento para mantener un balance de agua apropiado. En cuatro ocasiones observ la conducta de recoleccin de agua de lluvia, o conducta que sugiere la recoleccin de agua de lluvia, en una poblacin de vbora de cascabel (Crotalus mitcheUit) del desierto de Mojave, en el suroeste de Norteamrica. Las serpientes colectaron el agua de lluvia en la superficie de sus cuerpos y luego se la tomaron. Las vboras de cascabel tambin tomaron agua de lluvia que se acumulaba en estructuras de su habitat (por ejemplo, en la superficie de las rocas). Mis observaciones sugieren que mitchellii quizs colecta agua de lluvia cuando las condiciones termales no son ptimas (es decir, cuando las temperaturas son bajas). Por ejemplo, las vboras de cascabel presumiblemente interrumpen su invernacin para tomar agua de lluvia.
40588591|Stomach contents of Nerodia fasdata and Nerodia rhombifer from Louisiana and Texas were examined by either palpation or dissection. Recovered prey included one new prey item (Siren intermedia) for N. fasdata and one (Arius felis) for N. rhombifer. Prey:predator ratios of mass and total size of meals are reported. Contenidos del estmago de Nerodia fasdata y Nerodia rhombifer de Louisiana y de Texas fueron examinados por medio de palpacin o diseccin. Las presas recuperadas incluyeron una nueva presa (Siren intermedia) para N. fasdata y otra (Arius felis) para N. rhombifer. Tambin se reportan las proporciones de masa presas:depredadores y el tamao total de las comidas.
40588592|We report an incident from southeastern Arizona of an adult western screech-owl (Megascops kennicottii) entangled in Coulter spiderling (Boerhaavia coulteri), a native forb. Boerhaavia thrives in open areas, such as heavily grazed rangeland and other anthropogenically disturbed land. Rapid urban development may create favorable conditions for proliferation of Boerhaavia and promote avian entanglements. Reportamos un incidente en el sudeste de Arizona de un adulto tecolote occidental (Megascops kennicottii) enredado en Boerhaavia coulteri, una planta nativa. Boerhaavia crece en reas abiertas, como por ejemplo pastizales con pastoreo fuerte y otras reas que han sido perturbadas por el hombre. El rpido crecimiento urbano puede crear condiciones favorables para la proliferacin de Boerhaavia y promover el enredo de aves.
40588597|The cytochrome-b gene was sequenced and data were analyzed for 104 Perognathus from localities in Mexico, Arizona, California, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas to evaluate the validity of P. flavus and P. merriami and to assess the occurrence of species of Perognathus in Oklahoma. Unweightedparsimony, minimum-evolution, maximum-likelihood (TrN+I+G), and Bayesian analyses revealed seven well-supported terminal clades corresponding to currently recognized species of Perognathus. Results validate recognition of P. flavus and P. merriami as distinct species, document the occurrence of P. merriami within Oklahoma, and reveal a second potential contact zone between P. flavus and P. merriami in the Oklahoma Panhandle. El gen cytochroma-b de 104 ejemplares de Perognathus de localidades en Mxico, Arizona, California, Nuevo Mxico, Oklahoma, y Texas fueron secuenciados y los datos analizados a fin de convalidar las especies P. flavus y P. merriami y para evaluar la presencia de las especies de Perognathus en Oklahoma. Los anlisis filogenticos (parsimonia sin peso, evolucin mnima, probabilidad mxima (TrN+I+G), y el de Bayes) revelaron la existencia de siete ciados terminales bien apoyados que corresponden a las especies de Perognathus actualmente conocidas. Los resultados confirman la validez de las especies P. flavus y P. merriami, documentan la presencia de P. merriami en el estado de Oklahoma, y revelan una segunda zona potencial de contacto entre P. flavus y P. merriami en el rea noroeste del estado de Oklahoma conocido como el panhandle (mango de la sartn).
40588598|We present the first robust estimates of apparent survival of western cottonmouths (Agkistrodon piscivorus leucostoma) in central Texas. Estimates presented were obtained using the Cormack-Jolly-Seber Model that accounts for detectability. Apparent annual probability of survival of western cottonmouths located at Honey Creek, Comal County, Texas, a spring-fed stream flowing 3.2 km to its confluence with the Guadalupe River, was 0.81 and was consistent with estimates for similar species of snakes. Despite low probability of detection (0.12) and relatively small sample (n = 51), the estimate of survival was reasonably precise (coefficient of variation was 4%). One benefit of our study is that we used a long-term dataset (11 years) that encompassed multiple floods and droughts, and therefore, represents a relatively wide range of conditions to which western cottonmouths are exposed at this locality. Presentamos las primeras estimaciones robustas de supervivencia aparente de la mocasn de boca de algodn (Agkistrodon pisvorus leucostoma) en Texas central. Las estimaciones presentadas fueron obtenidas utilizando el modelo de Cormack-Jolly-Seber que se ajusta por la detectabilidad. La probabilidad anual aparente de supervivencia de la mocasn de boca de algodn localizada en Honey Creek, condado de Comal, Texas, una corriente alimentada por un manantial que fluye 3.2 km a su confluencia con el ro Guadalupe, fue 0.81 y fue consistente con estimaciones para especies semejantes de serpientes. A pesar de la probabilidad baja del descubrimiento (0.12) y la muestra relativamente pequea (n = 51), la estimacin de supervivencia fue razonablemente precisa (coeficiente de variacin de 4%). Un beneficio de nuestro estudio es que utilizamos un conjunto de datos a largo plazo (11 aos) que abarc inundaciones y sequas mltiples, y por lo tanto, representa una relativamente gran variedad de condiciones a las que las mocasines de boca de algodn estn expuestas en esta localidad.
40588599|We used radiotelemetry to document and compare activity and movement between the western spotted skunk Spibgale gradlis, and the striped skunk Mephitis mephitis in Texas. Mephitis mephitis had a higher rate of movement than S. gradas. Both species had highest rates of movement during autumn, coinciding with dispersal of young. With the exception of summer, M. mephitis was significantly more active than S. gradlis and generally took shorter breaks during nightly activity. We documented statistical differences in activity between species for all seasons. Highest activity of one species occurred during lowest activity of the other species, which may indicate avoidance of the larger more-dominant species, M. mephitis, by S. gracilis. Utilizamos datos de telemetria para documentar y comparar la actividad y el movimiento entre el zorrillo manchado occidental Spilogale gracilis y el zorrillo rayado Mephitis mephitis en Texas, USA. Mephitis mephitis tuvo un ndice de movimiento ms alto que S. gracilis. Ambas especies tuvieron la taza de movimiento ms alta durante el otoo, coincidiendo con la dispersin de cras. Con la excepcin del verano, M. mephitis estuvo significativamente ms activo que S. gracilis y generalmente tom descansos ms cortos durante la actividad nocturna. Documentamos diferencias estadsticas en la actividad entre las especies en todas las estaciones del ao. La alta actividad de una especie ocurri durante la baja actividad de la otra especie, lo que puede indicar que S. gracilis evita a la especie ms grande y dominante, M. mephitis.
40588600|Studies of birds in winter are rare in wildlife ecology despite winter being a critical time for birds. We examined winter assemblages of birds in ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests of northern Arizona following prescribed fire. We conducted point counts on two study sites in northern Arizona from mid-October to mid-March 2004-2006. Each site had one unit treated by prescribed fire a full growing season before the point counts began, paired with control unit(s) of similar structure. We detected 39 species during the survey. Nine species comprised 81% of all detections; eight of these were year-round residents of the area. Dark-eyed juncos (Junco hyemalis) were the most numerous, comprising 23% of all detections. Assemblages were similar between treatments (Sorenson similarity index = 0.85) and years (Sorenson similarity index = 0.85), and rank abundance of species between burn and control units were correlated (Spearman's p = 0.83). Therefore, assemblages of birds in winter were similar among areas treated by prescribed fire and unburned areas of ponderosa pine forests in northern Arizona. Estudios de aves durante el invierno son raros en la ecologa de la vida silvestre, a pesar de que el invierno es una poca crtica para las aves. Examinamos los ensamblajes invernales de aves en bosques de pino ponderosa (Pinus ponderosa) en el norte de Arizona despus de un incendio prescrito. Llevamos a cabo conteo de puntos en dos sitios de estudio en el norte de Arizona desde mediados de octubre hasta mediados de marzo durante 2004-2006. Cada sitio tuvo una sola unidad tratada con fuego controlado en una temporada completa de crecimiento antes de que los conteos de puntos se empezaran, pareada con unidad(es) de control de estructura similar. Detectamos 39 especies durante el perodo de muestreo. Nueve especies comprendieron el 81% de todas las detecciones; ocho de estas fueron residentes permanentes del rea. Juncos ojo oscuro (Junco hyemalis) fueron los ms numerosos, comprendiendo 23% de todas las detecciones. Los ensamblajes fueron similares entre tratamientos (ndice de similitud de Sorenson = 0,85) y entre aos (ndice de similitud de Sorenson = 0,85), y las abundancias de especies por rango entre unidades quemadas y de control estuvieron correlacionadas (p de Spearman = 0,83). De esta manera, los ensamblajes invernales de aves fueron similares entre reas tratadas con fuego prescrito y reas no quemadas de bosques de pino ponderosa en el norte de Arizona.
40588601|Our objective was to use the 50%-core-area estimation to measure size of home range of urban-breeding white-winged doves (Zenaida asiatica) from two ecoregions in Texas. We collected data on locations using subcutaneously implanted radiotransmitters on 40 white-winged doves in Kingsville, Kleberg County, during 2000, and 40 and 39 white-winged doves in Waco, McLellan County, during 2002 and 2003, respectively. We calculated size of home ranges using bivariate-normal methods. We compared size of home range from 50%-core-area estimations within and between sites, and by sex, using two-sample Hests following logio transformation of data to meet the assumptions of normality and homoscedasticity. Generally, estimated size of 50%-core-areas differed significantly between sites but not within sites. Nuestro objetivo fue utilizar la estimacin de 50% del rea principal para medir el rango de hogar de palomas de alas blancas (Zenaida asitica) reproducindose en reas urbanas de dos regiones ecolgicas de Texas. Colectamos ubicaciones por va de radiotransmisores subcutneos implantados en 40 palomas de alas blancas en Kingsville, condado de Kleberg, en el ao 2000, y en 40 y 39 palomas de alas blancas en Waco, condado de McLellan, durante 2002 y 2003, respectivamente. Calculamos el tamao del rango de hogar utilizando mtodos del normal bivariado. Comparamos el tamao del rango de hogar proveniente de la estimacin de 50% del rea principal dentro y entre los sitios, y por sexo, mediante pruebas de t de dos muestras posterior a la transformacin de datos por log?? para satisfacer las suposiciones de la normalidad y la homoscedastidad. En general, el tamao estimado de 50% de las reas principales difiri significativamente entre los sitios, pero no dentro de los sitios.
40588602|Status of the common muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus) in the southern High Plains and western Rolling Plains has remained uncertain due to a scarcity of records. I examined diversity of riparian habitats, frequency of occurrence of habitats, availability of habitats, and use of habitats by muskrats within an irrigation drainage system in southwestern Oklahoma during prolonged drought. Six major habitats were supported in 31 km of drainage channels. These included, in order of descending frequency, emergent cattails, prairie sedge meadow, cattail-forested transition, forest, turf grass, and pioneer mudflat. Of habitats in drainage systems, 60% were available for muskrats as defined by presence of water. Availability differed among habitats; prairie sedge meadow had highest availability and emergent cattails was the lowest in availability. Use of habitats differed significantly among habitats and was driven by availability. El estatus de las ratas almizcleras (Ondatra zibethicus) en las altiplanicies meridionales y las planicies ondulantes occidentales se ha mantenido incierto debido a la escasez de registros. Examin la diversidad de hbitats ribereos, la frecuencia de ocurrencia de hbitats, la disponibilidad de hbitats, y el uso de hbitats por las ratas almizcleras dentro de un sistema de drenaje de irrigacin en el suroeste de Oklahoma durante un perodo de sequa prolongado. Treinta y un kilmetros de canales de drenaje sostenan seis tipos principales de hbitat, incluyendo en orden de frecuencia descendiente: anea emergente, juncia de prado, anea en transicin a forestacin, bosque, csped y marisma pionera. El 60% de los hbitats del sistema de drenaje fue clasificado como disponible para las ratas almizcleras de acuerdo a la presencia de agua. La disponibilidad difiri entre los tipos de hbitats; la juncia de prado tuvo la disponibilidad ms alta mientras que la anea emergente tuvo la ms baja. El uso de los hbbitats por las ratas almizcleras vari significativamente entre los tipos de hbitats, y fue determinado por su disponibilidad.
40588603|The eastern fox squirrel (Sdurus niger) is one of 22 non-native species of mammals now successfully breeding in the wild in California. The focus of this study was to describe current and historical distribution of the eastern fox squirrel in the greater Los Angeles metropolitan area (Los Angeles, Orange, and Ventura counties) in relation to their initial point of introduction in 1904. Data were obtained through questionnaires, submissions to websites, direct observations, records of wildliferehabilitation centers, and specimens in the Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History. Locations of eastern fox squirrels were geo-referenced on a map to ascertain the current distribution. A time-series distribution map was created to document expansion of the range from the point of introduction to distribution of the species in the greater Los Angeles metropolitan area as of 2004. Distribution of the population in Los Angeles County was expanding at rates of 0.44 3.44 km/year during varying time periods over the 100 years since the introduction. By determining the periphery of the current distribution of the eastern fox squirrel and rate of expansion of the range in the greater Los Angeles metropolitan area, wildlife managers in surrounding communities may be able to anticipate locations where future expansions of the range may occur. La ardilla zorra (Sdurus niger) es una de 22 especies de mamferos no nativos de las zonas silvestres de California que se estn reproduciendo con xito. El enfoque de este estudio fue describir la distribucin, actual e histrica, de la ardilla zorra en la gran zona metropolitana de Los ngeles (condados de Los ngeles, Ventura, y Orange) con respecto a su punto de introduccin inicial en 1904. Se obtuvieron datos a travs de cuestionarios, informacin enviada a las pginas web, observaciones directas, registros de centros de rehabilitacin de fauna silvestre, y ejemplares de la coleccin de mamferos del Museo de Historia Natural del condado de Los ngeles. Las ubicaciones de ardillas fueron referenciadas geogrficamente en un mapa para conocer su actual distribucin geogrfica. Un mapa con los puntos referenciados a la fecha fue creado para determinar la expansin de la distribucin geogrfica desde el punto de introduccin hasta la distribucin en la gran zona metropolitana de Los ngeles a partir del 2004. Se determin que la distribucin de la poblacin en el condado de Los ngeles se fue extendido, con tasas de 0.44-3.44 km/ao, durante periodos variables de tiempo en los cien aos desde su introduccin. Si se determina el lmite de la distribucin actual de la ardilla zorra y la tasa de expansin de la distribucin en la gran zona metropolitana de Los ngeles, los encargados del hbitat silvestre en las comunidades adyacentes podrn anticipar las localidades donde futuras expansiones podran ocurrir.
40588604|We compared diversity and abundance of small mammals at colonies of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) and paired non-colony sites. Of colonies of black-tailed prairie dogs in our study area, >80% were on slopes of playa lakes; thus, we used sites of colonies and noncolonies that were on slopes of playa lakes. We trapped small mammals on 29 pairs of sites. Overall abundance did not differ between types of sites, but some taxa exhibited associations with colonies (Onychomys leucogaster) or non-colonies (Chaetodipus hispidus, Reithrodontomys, Sigmodon hispidus). Diversity and evenness of small mammals did not differ between colonies and non-colonies in 2002, but were higher on non-colonies in 2003. Although we may not have detected some rare or infrequently occurring species, our data reveal differences in diversity and evenness of more common species among the types of sites. Prairie dogs are touted as a keystone species with their colonies associated with a greater faunal diversity than adjacent lands. Our findings contradict several studies reporting greater diversity and abundance of small mammals at colonies of prairie dogs. We suggest that additional research across a wider landscape and incorporating landscape variables beyond the immediate trapping plot may further elucidate interspecific associations between black-tailed prairie dogs and species of small rodents. Comparamos la diversidad y abundancia de mamferos pequeos entre colonias de perritos llaneros de cola negra (Cynomys ludovianus) y reas similares sin perritos llaneros. Ms del 80% de las colonias de perritos llaneros se encontraron en las mrgenes de humedales (lagos playa) por lo que los sitios de comparacin se eligieron tambin en las mrgenes de este tipo de humedales. Colectamos mamferos pequeos en 29 pares de sitios. La abundancia en total no fue diferente entre los dos tipos de sitios, pero algunas taxa mostraron asociacin con las colonias de perritos llaneros (Onychomys leucogaster) y otras con sitios sin perritos (Chaetodipus hispidus, Reithrodontomys, Sigmodon hispidus). La diversidad y equidad de mamferos pequeos no fueron diferentes entre sitios con y sin colonias en 2002, pero los valores fueron ms altos en sitios sin colonias en 2003. A pesar de que es posible que no se detectaran algunas especies raras o poco frecuentes, nuestros datos revelaron diferencias entre los dos tipos de sitios en diversidad y equidad de las especies ms comunes. Los perritos llaneros son considerados una especie clave, con sus colonias asociadas con mayor diversidad y abundancia de mamferos pequeos que las reas aledaas. Nuestros resultados no concuerdan con los de unos otros estudios que registran mayor diversidad y abundancia en las colonias de los perritos llaneros. Sugerimos que ms investigaciones que incluyan paisajes ms amplios e incluyan variables a una escala mayor a las inmediaciones de la parcela de trampeo, podran elucidar mejor las asociaciones inter-especificas entre los perritos llaneros de cola negra y otras especies de roedores pequeos.
40588605|In Texas, introduced wild boars (Sus scrofa) consume mast crops that are high-quality foods sought by native wildlife. Because mast often is abundant but ephemeral, competition among species is expected. Relative rates of intake among individuals can determine how much mast can be obtained and digested. Our objective was to determine intake of mast by wild boars, white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) , collared peccaries (Pecan tajacu), wild turkeys (Meleagrs gallopavo) , and raccoons (Procyon iotof). Trials were conducted with pods from honey mesquites (Prosopis glandulosa) , acorns from live oaks (Quercus virginiana), and acorns from Shumard oaks (Quercus shumardii). Rate of intake of dry matter (g/min), rate of bites (bites/min), and size of bites (g/bite) were determined for each species. Despite their larger size, wild boars did not have consistently higher rates of intake than species of native wildlife. However, rates of intake for wild boars were among the highest for pods of honey mesquites and acorns of live oaks. Wild boars had low rates of intake for acorns of Shumard oaks, primarily because wild boars removed the shell, which increased handling time and reduced size of bite. Collared peccaries and raccoons also exhibited shelling behavior when consuming acorns, which reduced their intakes as well. White-tailed deer had relatively high rates of intake of mast compared to other species. Wild turkeys maintained the highest rates of bites for acorns of live oaks, which resulted in high rates of intake relative to body mass. The value of mast appears to be related to its size and shape, which may enable some species to attain higher rates of intake of dry matter than possible on browse and other foods. Moderate to high rates of intake of mast by wild boars, coupled with their ability to displace other species from feeding sites and obtain a higher-quality diet by discarding acorn shells should enable them to compete effectively with native species for mast. En Texas, cerdos salvajes introducidos (Sus scrofa) consumen la cosecha del bosque (frutos y semillas) de alta calidad buscada por la fauna silvestre nativa. Debido a que la cosecha del bosque es a menudo abundante pero efmera, la competencia entre especies es esperada. La tasa relativa de ingestin entre individuos puede determinar cuanta cosecha del bosque puede ser obtenida y digerida. Nuestro objetivo fue determinar la cantidad ingerida de cosecha del bosque por cerdos salvajes, venado de cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus), jabales (Pecan tajacu), pavos silvestres (Meleagrs gallopavo) y mapaches (Procyon lotor). Fueron conducidos experimentos con frutos y semillas de mesquites (Prosopis glandulosa) y de robles (Quercus virginiana y Quercus shumardii). Para cada especie fueron determinadas la tasa de ingestin de materia seca (g/minuto), tasa de mordidas (mordidas/minuto) y tamao de mordidas (g/mordida). A pesar del mayor tamao corporal, los cerdos no tuvieron consistentemente una tasa de ingestin superior a la de las especies de fauna silvestre nativa. Sin embargo, las tasas de ingestin por los cerdos estuvieron entre las ms altas para Prosopis glandulosa y Quercus virginiana. Los cerdos tuvieron bajas tasas de ingestin de Quercus shumardii, principalmente porque quitaron la cscara, que increment el tiempo de manipuleo y redujo el tamao de la mordida. Los jabales y mapaches tambin quitaron la cscara de los frutos de robles, lo cual tambin redujo su ingestin. Los venados tuvieron una tasa de ingestin de la cosecha del bosque relativamente alta comparada con las otras especies. Los pavos mantuvieron la tasa de mordidas ms alta de frutos de Quercus virginiana, lo cual result en altas tasas de ingestin relativa al tamao corporal. El valor de consumo de la cosecha del bosque parece estar relacionado a su tamao y forma, que puede capacitar a algunas especies para lograr una tasa de ingestin de materia seca ms alta que con la comida de ramitas y otros alimentos. La moderada a alta tasa de ingestin de la cosecha del bosque por los cerdos salvajes, asociada con su capacidad de desplazar a otras especies de sus sitios de alimentacin y obtener una calidad de dieta ms alta quitando la cscara del fruto de los robles, debe capacitarlos para competir efectivamente con las especies nativas para la cosecha del bosque.
40588606|Success in competition for a limited food resource can be determined in part by how efficiently a species digests food. We conducted in vivo trials to compare digestive performance by a guild of mast-consuming species in southern Texas: wild boar (Sus scrofa), white-tailed deer (Odocoileus xnrginianus), collared peccary (Pecan tajacu), wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo), raccoon (Procyon lotor), and southern plains woodrat (Neotoma micropus) . Four individuals of each species were fed commercial pellets and chromium-marked fiber to determine rates of passage. Dry matter and intake of digestible energy, and digestibility of detergent fiber, crude protein, and gross energy (metabolizability for turkeys) were determined for each species. Mean retention and time of passage of 95% of marked fiber were calculated. Digestibility and time of retention by wild boars was similar to foregut-fermenting species and equal to or greater than smaller hindgut fermenters. White-tailed deer and collared peccaries showed similar capabilities of digestion and retention, and also had higher digestibilities of fiber than small hindgut fermenters. Turkeys and raccoons had fast rates of passage and showed little digestion of fiber. Southern plains woodrats had intermediate digestibilities and times of retention. Wild boars are expected to be effective competitors for mast because of their digestive efficiency, large body size, and potential for consumption of large quantities of food. El xito para competir por alimento con otras especies cuando los recursos son limitados puede estar determinado parcialmente por la eficiencia para digerir alimento. Se realizaron dos pruebas de digestibilidad en vivo en un grupo de diferentes animales consumidores de frutos y semillas del sur de Texas: cerdos salvajes (Sus scrofa) introducidos, venado de cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus), jabal (Pecan tajacu), pavos silvestres (Meleagrs gallopavo), mapache (Procyon lotor), y rata silvestre (Neotoma micropus). Cuatro individuos de cada especie se alimentaron con una comida comercial (peletizada) y fibra marcada con cromo para determinar la tasa de paso. Para cada especie se determin el consumo de materia seca, consumo de energa digestible, y la digestibilidad de fibra detergente, protena cruda, y energa bruta (capacidad para ser metabolizada por pavos). Se calcul el promedio de tiempo de retencin y tiempo para pasar el 95% de la fibra marcada. La digestibilidad y tiempo de retencin de los cerdos salvajes fueron similares a las especies con sistema de fermentacin anterior, e igual o mayor a las especies ms pequeas con sistema de fermentacin posterior. Los venados de cola blanca y los jabales mostraron capacidades de digestin y retencin similares, y tambin tuvieron una digestibilidad ms alta de fibra que los animales pequeos de fermentacin posterior. Los pavos y mapaches tuvieron una rpida velocidad de paso y baja digestibilidad de la fibra. Las ratas silvestres tuvieron una digestibilidad y tiempo de retencin intermedios. Los cerdos salvajes podran ser competidores efectivos de alimento de frutos y semillas dada su eficiencia digestiva, mayor tamao corporal, y potencial para consumir grandes cantidades de alimento.
40588607|We intensively sampled fishes from two reaches of the Rio Grande within the Albuquerque Basin (Albuquerque and Belen valleys) during 1998-2001, compared our findings with those from 1984, and compiled a list of all fishes known from the two reaches. Structure of assemblages (richness, diversity, abundance distributions-taxon dominance versus rank abundance) was similar between reaches in 1998-2001, but the faunas had low taxonomic similarity. The nonnative white sucker (Catostomus commersoni), western mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis), and native red shiner (Caprinella lutrensis) dominated the Albuquerque Valley. Faunal change in the Albuquerque Valley between 1984 and 1998-2001 indicated all native fishes besides the red shiner declined, particularly the Rio Grande silvery minnow (Hybognathus amarus) and longnose dace (Rhinichthys cataractae). In contrast, the red shiner alone dominated the Belen Valley, nonnative fishes were less dominant, and aside from the Rio Grande silvery minnow and longnose dace, native species did not decline. Environmental differences provide a potential explanation for divergence of faunas between valleys, i.e., discharge in spring and summer is higher and substrate is coarser in the Albuquerque Valley. Dewatering, fragmentation by dams, and modifications of the river channel correspond to historical losses of fishes that require fluvial conditions. With the exception of the red shiner and, possibly, the fathead minnow (Pimephales prometas) and slender carpsucker (Carpiodes carpio), native fishes appear to be succumbing to combined stressors of change in habitat, intermittence of streamflow, and interactions with nonnative taxa. Muestreamos intensivamente a peces de dos secciones del ro Grande dentro de la cuenca de Albuquerque (los valles de Albuquerque y de Beln) durante 1998-2001, comparamos nuestros resultados con los de 1984, y compilamos una lista de todos los peces conocidos de las dos secciones. La estructura de ensamblajes (riqueza, diversidad, distribuciones de la abundancia-dominancia de taxon contra rango de abundancia) fue similar entre las secciones en 1998-2001, pero la fauna tuvo poca semejanza taxonmica. El pez extico, matalote (Catostomus commersonii), el guayacn mosquito (Gambusia affinis), y el pez nativo, carpita roja (Cyprinella lutrensis lutrensis) dominaron el valle de Albuquerque. El cambio de fauna en el valle de Albuquerque entre 1984 y 1998-2001 indic que todos los peces nativos adems del carpita roja declinaron, particularmente el carpa chamizal (Hybognathus amarus) y el carpita rinconera (Rhinichthys cataractae cataractae). En cambio, slo el carpita roja domin el valle de Beln, los peces exticos fueron menos dominantes, y aparte del carpa chamizal y el carpita rinconera, las especies nativas no declinaron. Las diferencias ambientales proporcionan una explicacin potencial para la divergencia de fauna entre los valles. Es decir, la descarga de agua durante la primavera y verano es ms alta y el sustrato es ms grueso en el valle de Albuquerque. La desecacin, la fragmentacin por las presas y las modificaciones del lecho del ro corresponden a las prdidas histricas de peces que necesitan condiciones fluviales. Con la excepcin del carpita roja y, posiblemente, el carpita cabezona (Pimephales promelas) y el matalote chato (Carpiodes carpio elongatus), parece que los peces nativos estn sucumbiendo a las presiones conjuntas del cambio del habitat, flujo intermitente, e interacciones con especies exticas.
40588608|The western pond turtle (Actinemys marmorata) has lost most of its habitat in the Central Valley of California to agricultural activities, flood control, and urbanization. Although a few areas still support this turtle, most habitats are now altered by humans. Aquatic habitats near population centers also may become release sites for a variety of introduced turtles, which could compete with the native A. marmorata. In 1999, 2002, and 2007, I trapped at the Fresno and Hanford wastewater-treatment facilities to determine presence and numbers of A. marmorata at settling ponds in these facilities. I caught 213 A. marmorata at Fresno and 106 at Hanford. No other species of turtles was caught. Turtles at both sites grew rapidly and had a mean size of clutch of 8.2 (Fresno) and 8.5 eggs (Hanford), which are the highest mean size of clutch reported for this species. Although not esthetically appealing to people, both sewage-treatment facilities provide habitat for A. marmorat and these could provide stock for future reintroductions of this species to more natural, rehabilitated aquatic habitats in nearby areas. La tortuga Actinemys marmorat ha perdido la mayor parte de su hbitat en el valle central de California debido a actividades agrcolas, a medidas para el control de inundaciones, y a la urbanizacin. Aunque algunas reas todava mantienen a esta tortuga, la mayora de los hbitats ahora estn alterados por humanos. Los hbitats acuticos cercanos a poblaciones humanas tambin pueden convertirse en sitios para liberar una variedad de tortugas introducidas, las cuales podran competir con la nativa A. marmorata. En 1999, 2002 y 2007, colect en las facilidades para el tratamiento de aguas residuales de Fresno y Hanford para determinar la presencia y los nmeros de A. marmorata en charcas de depsito en dichas facilidades. Captur 213 A. marmorat en Fresno y 106 en Hanford. Ninguna otra especie de tortuga fue capturada. Las tortugas en ambos sitios crecieron rpidamente y tuvieron una puesta promedio de 8.2 (Fresno) y 8.5 huevos (Hanford), las cuales son los mayores tamaos promedios de la puesta reportados para esta especie. A pesar de no ser atractivas estticamente para la gente, ambas facilidades para el tratamiento del agua residual proporcionan hbitat para A. marmorata y stas podran ser una fuente para futuras reintroducciones de esta especie a hbitats acuticos rehabilitados ms naturales en reas circunvecinas.
40588609|Diet of two populations of Sceloporus grammicus was determined from Tilcuautla and La Estanzuela, Hidalgo, Mexico. Diet of S. grammicus is primarily Araneae, Insecta (Coleoptera, Dermaptera, Diptera, Hemiptera, Homoptera, Hymenoptera Lepidoptera, and Orthoptera), Mollusca (gastropods), and Reptilia (Sauria). Hymenoptera and Coleptera were most frequent in the diet of both populations. These groups were more abundant and more diverse in diet of lizards from Tilcuautla than in those from La Estanzuela. Breadth of diet for males from Tilcuautla was B = 0.108 and for females was B = 0.101, and in La Estanzuela was B = 0.183 and B = 0.095 for males and females, respectively. Overlap between males and females from Tilcuautla was O jk = 1.000, with percentage overlap of 97.0-100%, and for La Estanzuela overlap was O jk = 0.938, with percentage overlap of 76.3-100%. Based on the feeding-importance value (Vil), coleopterans and hymenopterans were the most important orders in the diet of S. grammicus for both populations and sexes. Diet of S. grammicus is mainly insectivorous with a tendency to specialization on coleopterans and hymenopterans, but this species could be a generalist at some time during the year as indicated by this study. Se determin la dieta de dos poblaciones de la lagartija Sceloporus grammicus de las localidades de Tilcuautla La Estanzuela, Hidalgo, Mxico. La dieta de S. grammicus es principalmente Araneae, Insecta (Coleoptera, Dermaptera, Diptera, Hemiptera, Homoptera, Hymenoptera, Lepidoptera Orthoptera), Mollusca (Gastrpoda) y Reptilia (Sauria). Las presas ms frecuentes en las dietas fueron los himenpteros y los colepteros. Estos grupos fueron ms abundantes y diversos en la dieta de las lagartijas de Tilcuautla que en La Estanzuela. En Tilcuautla, la amplitud de nicho alimentario para los machos fue de B = 0.108 y para las hembras de B = 0.101, mientras que en La Estanzuela fue de B = 0.183 y B = 0.095, respectivamente. El solapamiento alimentario entre machos y hembras de Tilcuautla fue de O = 1.000, con un porcentaje de solapamiento de 97.0-100% y para La Estanzuela de O = 0.938, con un porcentaje de solapamiento de 76.3-100%. Mediante el valor de importancia alimentario (Vil), se determin que los colepteros e himenpteros fueron los rdenes de presas ms importantes en la dieta de S. grammicus, tanto entre poblaciones como entre sexos. La dieta de S. grammicus es principalmente insectvora con tendencia a la especializacin en presas como colepteros e himenpteros. Pero tambin se puede considerar como una especie generalista en algunas partes del ao como lo observado en este estudio.
40588610|The zebra-tailed lizard (Callisaurus draconoides) is a diurnal territorial insectivore from arid areas of North America. The underside of its tail has a series of black bands on a white background; individuals raise the tail to expose the underside as a social signal and to deter pursuit by predators. We characterized variation in banding of the tail within a population of C. draconoides from Sonora, Mexico, and examined the relationship between characteristics and use of the tail. Number of bands on intact tails was 4 10; individuals who have experienced some natural reduction in their tail can lack bands all together. The proportion of the underside of the tail that was black was 0 0.46. For males, snout vent length and mass were positively correlated with number of bands and mean length of bars on the tail; snout-vent length, mass, and width of head were positively correlated with the proportion of black on tails. Females in better condition (based on residuals from regression of snout-vent length to mass) tended to have more bars on the tail and a wider head; snout-vent length, mass, and width of head were positively correlated with mean length of band. We simulated predator-prey interactions using humans as predators. Males used tail displays more than females. Individuals encountered in the open were more likely to use tail displays. Neither size of body nor natural reduction in tail was related to use of tail displays. During focal observations for females with reduced tails, rates of tail displays were positively correlated with length of tail. Males with intact tails moved more frequently and fed more often than males with reduced tails. La lagartija cachora (Callisaurus draconoides) es un insectvoro territorial diurno que se distribuye en las regiones ridas de Norteamrica. Debajo de la cola tiene una serie de bandas negras sobre un fondo blanco. Individuos levantan la cola para mostrar su lado ventral y as mandar seales sociales y disuadir a depredadores. Describimos la variacin de las bandas de la cola en una poblacin de C. draconoides de Sonora, Mxico, e investigamos como se relacionan stas caractersticas con el uso de la cola. El nmero de bandas en la cola intacta fue 4-10; individuos que han experimentado cierto acortamiento natural de la cola pueden carecer totalmente de bandas. La proporcin del color negro en el lado ventral de la cola fue 0-0.46. En los machos, existe una correlacin positiva de la longitud hocico-cloaca y del peso corporal con la cantidad y longitud promedio de las bandas; la longitud hocicocloaca, el peso corporal, y el ancho de la cabeza mostraron una correlacin positiva con la proporcin de color negro de la cola. Las hembras en mejor condicin (basado en residuales de la regresin de longitud hocico-cloaca a peso) tendieron a tener ms bandas en la cola y una cabeza ms ancha; la longitud hocico-cloaca, el peso, y el ancho de la cabeza mostraron una correlacin positiva con la longitud promedio de las bandas. Simulamos interacciones depredador-presa empleando a humanos como depredadores. Los machos usaron exhibiciones de la cola ms frecuentemente que las hembras. Los individuos encontrados en espacios abiertos tendieron a hacer exhibiciones de la cola con ms frecuencia. Ni el tamao corporal ni el acortamiento natural de la cola estuvieron relacionados con la frecuencia de exhibiciones de la cola. En observaciones intensivas de hembras de cola reducida, se encontr una correlacin positiva entre la frecuencia de exhibiciones de la cola y la longitud de la misma. Los machos de cola intacta se desplazaron y comieron ms frecuentemente que los machos de cola reducida.
40588611|Pallid bats, Antrozous pallidus, glean prey off the ground or from vegetation. During 27 March-19 November 2004, culled parts of prey were collected from under a night roost on Indio Mountains Research Station, Hudspeth County, Texas. Adjacent pitfall traps were monitored concurrently to determine species richness and seasonal abundance of potential prey. Prey representing 44 morphospecies from 4 classes, 13 orders, 25 families, and 34 genera were recovered and identified. Of the identified morphospecies, 29 were unrecorded previously in diet of the pallid bat. Orthopterans were the highest percentage of prey (44.1%), followed by coleopterans (26.8%), and solifugids (16.2%), but most taxa were represented by < 4% of the total. Conclusions are that arthropods are the primary food source, but a wide variety of species are consumed, there is occasional prdation on vertebrates (three species of lizards), there are statistical differences between amount of prey eaten and abundance of prey in the same geographic area indicating selective foraging behavior, there are seasonal dietary shifts associated with common prey items, and there is geographic variation in diet of pallid bats when compared to studies from other localities within its geographic range. Los murcilagos plidos, Antrozous pallidus, recolectan presas en el suelo o en la vegetacin. Del 27 de marzo al 19 de noviembre del 2004, restos de presas fueron colectados bajo un dormidero nocturno localizado en Indio Mountain Research Station, condado de Hudspeth, Texas. Trampas de cada adyacentes fueron monitoreadas al mismo tiempo para determinar la riqueza especfica y la abundancia estacional de las presas potenciales. Cuarenta y cuatro morfoespecies de presas de 4 clases, 13 rdenes, 25 familias, y 34 gneros fueron recuperadas e identificadas. De stas, 29 fueron nuevos registros para la dieta del murcilago plido. Los ortpteros representaron el ms alto porcentaje de las presas (44.1%), seguidos por colepteros (26.8%), y solfugos (16.2%), aunque la mayora de los taxa fue representada por < 4% del total. Se concluye que los artrpodos son la principal fuente de alimento, pero una gran variedad de especies es consumida; existe una depredacin ocasional de vertebrados (tres especies de lagartijas); existen diferencias significativas entre la cantidad de especies consumidas y la abundancia de presas en el rea de estudio, sugiriendo una conducta de forrajeo selectiva; existen cambios estacionales en la dieta con respecto a las presas ms comunes; y existe una variacin geogrfica en la dieta del murcilago plido al compararla con otros estudios de otras localidades dentro de su distibucin geogrfica.
40588612|We examined the percentage of consumption of eggs of the endangered fountain darter, Etheostoma fonticola, by native and nonnative snails from the San Marcos River, Hays County, Texas. Although all snails consumed eggs, non-native Marisa cornuarietis (Prosobranchia: Ampullaridae) and native Helisoma anceps (Pulmonata: Planorbidae) consumed a significantly greater percentage of eggs than non-native Tarebia granifera and Melanoides tuberculatus (Prosobranchia: Thiaridae) and the native Physella virgata (Pulmonata: Physidae). Dramatic increases in M. cornuarietis in the San Marcos and Comal springs may have an adverse affect on populations of fountain darters. Comparamos los porcentajes de huevos consumidos del pececito en peligro de extincin, Etheostoma fonticola, por caracoles nativos y no nativos del ro San Marcos, condado de Hays, Texas. Aunque todos los caracoles consumieron huevos, el caracol no nativo, Marisa cornuarietis (Prosobranchia: Ampullaridae), y el caracol nativo, Heliosoma anceps (Pulmonata: Planorbidae), consumieron porcentajes significantamente mayores que los no nativos, Tarebia granifera y Melanoides tuberculatus (Prosobranchia: Thiaridae), y el nativo, Physella virgata (Pulmonata: Physidae). Aumentos dramticos de M. cornuarietis en los manantiales San Marcos y Comal podran afectar adversamente las poblaciones de E. fonticola.
40588613|Reports of the giant anteater (Myrmecophaga tridactyla) in Central America, and specifically in Honduras, are sporadic and typically of just one individual. During a 3.5-year (2001-2005) Honduran Program of Biological Monitoring, four new reports of the giant anteater were made in protected areas located in the Honduran Mosquitia in the departments of Gracias a Dios and Olancho with the most sightings made in the proposed protected area of Rus Rus. Three additional reports independent of the Honduran Program of Biological Monitoring are documented herein as well; these reports also are from the protected area of Rus Rus. We conclude that the giant anteater probably has been extirpated from the Caribbean region of Honduras, but remains present in the Honduran Mosquitia in the departments of Gracias a Dios and Olancho. Reportes del oso hormiguero gigante (Myrmecophaga tridactyla) en Amrica Central y especficamente en Honduras son espordicos y tpicamente de un solo individuo. Durante el Programa Hondureno de Monitoreo Biolgico de 3.5 aos (2001-2005), cuatro nuevos reportes del oso hormiguero gigante fueron documentados en reas protegidas de la Mosquitia hondurena en los departamentos de Gracias a Dios y Olancho con la mayora de los avistamientos hechos en un rea propuesta para proteccin, Rus Rus. Tambin estn documentados en esta nota tres reportes adicionales independientes del Programa Hondureno de Monitoreo Biolgico; estos reportes son tambin del rea protegida de Rus Rus. Concluimos que el oso hormiguero gigante probablemente ha sido extirpado de la regin del Caribe de Honduras, pero todava se encuentra presente en la Mosquitia hondurena en los departamentos de Gracias a Dios y Olancho.
40588614|Piscivory in age-0 smallmouth bass (Micropterus dolomieu) on native species is documented widely; however, few studies report size of prey. On 16 July 2008, we collected a smallmouth bass (65 mm in total length) with a bigscale logperch (Perana macrolepida; 44 mm in total length) in its gastrointestinal tract, from the Pecos River near Puerto de Luna, Guadalupe County, New Mexico. Smallmouth bass are nonnative in New Mexico. Bigscale logperch are listed as threatened in New Mexico, and the ability of age-0 smallmouth bass to take bigscale logperch at least 68% of their total length as prey should raise concerns about stocking smallmouth bass in areas where bigscale logperch and other native species occur. El consumo de especies nativas por lobinas de boca chica (Micropterus dolomieu) a la edad 0 ha sido documentado ampliamente. No obstante, pocos estudios han reportado la talla de la presa. El 16 de julio de 2008 se colect en ro Pecos, cerca de Puerto de Luna, condado de Guadalupe, Nuevo Mxico, USA, una lobina de boca chica (65 mm longitud total) con una perca de escama grande (Perana macrolepida; 44 mm longitud total) en su intestino. Micropterus dolomieu no es nativa de Nuevo Mxico. Percina macrolepida est clasificada como especie amenazada en Nuevo Mxico y la capacidad de las lobinas de boca chica a la edad 0 para comer a las percas de al menos 68% en relacin a su longitud total debe llamar atencin acerca de sembrar las lobinas de boca chica en reas donde la perca de escama grande y otras especies nativas co-existen.
40588615|Few studies have documented behavioral response of small mammals to fire. Here we report use of a nest by an adult Mount Graham red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus grahamensis), an endangered subspecies endemic to the Pinaleo Mountains of southeastern Arizona, following a direct lightning strike to a tree. After 2 days, the squirrel nested in this tree and remained in the area for another 136 days. This is evidence that red squirrels may tolerate some degree of fire on the landscape. Pocos estudios han documentado el comportamiento de mamferos pequeos en casos de incendio. Aqu reportamos el uso de un nido por un adulto de ardilla roja del monte Graham (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus grahamensis), una subespecie endmica amenazada de las Montaas Pinaleo en el sudeste de Arizona, despus de la cada de un rayo en el rbol donde se encontraba el nido. Despus de 2 das, la ardilla anid en este rbol y permaneci en el rea por otros 136 das. Esto es evidencia de que las ardillas rojas pueden tolerar incendios naturales hasta cierto punto.
40588616|We studied reproductive characteristics of two syntopic whiptail lizards, Aspidoscelis marmorata and A. tesselata, inhabiting the northern Chihuahuan Desert. Reproductive characteristics studied were snout vent length at sexual maturity, size of clutch, and volume of eggs. In A. marmorata, males and females were similar in snout-vent length, but body mass was larger in males than in females. Female A. tesselata were larger in snout-vent length and heavier than female A. marmorata. Mean size of clutch was 3.3 for A. marmorata and 3.5 for A. tesselata. Females of A. marmorata had larger volume of eggs than females of A. tesselata. Data suggest that both A. marmorata and A. tesselata respond to environmental factors of the region in different ways. Estudiamos las caractersticas reproductivas de dos especies sintpicas de lagartijas, Aspidoscelis marmorata y A. tesselata, en el norte del desierto chihuahuense. Las caractersticas de reproduccin estudiadas fueron longitud hocico-cloaca a la madurez sexual, tamao de la puesta y volumen del huevo. En A. marmorata, machos y hembras fueron similares en longitud hocico-cloaca, pero la masa fue mayor en los machos que en las hembras; las hembras de A. tesselata fueron ms grandes en longitud hocico-cloaca y pesaron ms que las hembras de A. marmorata. El tamao medio de la puesta fue de 3.3 huevos para A. marmorata y de 3.5 para A. tesselata. El volumen del huevo en las hembras de A. marmorata fue mayor que en las hembras de A. tesselata. Los datos sugieren que ambas especies, A. marmorata y A. tesselata, responden a los factores ambientales de la regin de manera diferente.
40588617|Sound production and spawning behavior has not been described in Cyprinella lepida, the Edwards Plateau shiner, although described for other species in the genus. This study documented acoustic signals associated with agonistic and courtship interactions produced by male C. lepida during the breeding season. Females did not produce sounds. Signals were monophasic consisting of one type of call (pulses). All sounds were non-harmonic, low frequency, and often occurred in trains called bursts. Courtship behaviors were characterized by differences in duration and dominant frequency. The exact mechanism of sound production in this species is unknown. No ha sido descrito la produccin de sonido ni el comportamiento del desove de la sardinita Cyprinella lepida. Sin embargo, estas caractersticas han sido descritas en otras especies del mismo genero. Este estudio document las seales acsticas asociadas con interacciones agonsticas y de cortejo producidas por los machos de C. lepida durante la estacin de reproduccin. Las hembras no produjeron sonidos. Las seales fueron monofsicas consistiendo de un slo tipo de llamada (pulsos). Todos los sonidos fueron no-harmnicos, de frecuencia baja, y muchas veces ocurrieron en secuencias como rfagas. El comportamiento del cortejo fue caracterizado por diferencias de duracin y la frecuencia dominante. Se desconoce el mechanismo exacto de produccin de sonido en esta especie.
40588618|We detected evidence of prdation by the Sonora mud turtle (Kinosternon sonoriense) on the Arizona alligator lizard (Elgaria kingii nobilii) and the ground snake (Sonora semiannulata) at Montezuma Well, Yavapai County, Arizona. Lizards have not been reported in the diet of sonoriense, and saurophagy is rare in turtles of the United States, having been reported previously in only two other species:, the false map turtle (Graptemys pseudogeographica) and the eastern box turtle (Terrapene carolina). While the diet of rare in turtles of the United States with records for only five other species of turtles. Given the opportunistic diets of many North American turtles, including sonoriense, the scarcity of published records of saurophagy and ophiophagy likely represents a shortage of observations, not rarity of occurrence. Evidencia de depredacin por la tortuga casquito de Sonora (Kinosternon sonoriense) en la lagartija lagarto de Arizona (Elgaria kingii nobilis) y la culebra de arena (Sonora semiannulata) fue observada en el Pozo Montezuma, condado de Yavapai, Arizona. Lagartijas no han sido reportadas en la dieta de otras dos especies, Graptemys pseudogeographica y Terrapene carolina. Aunque la dieta de sonoriense incluye vboras, el nuestro es el primer registro de S. semiannulata como comida de esta tortuga. Ofiofagia es tambin rara en tortugas en los Estados Unidos, habiendo sido observada en slo cinco otras especies de tortugas. Dadas las dietas oportunistas de muchas especies norteamericanas de tortugas, incluyendo una escasez de observaciones, y no necesariamente la rareza de la ocurrencia.
40588619|We discovered a previously unknown population of collared peccaries (Pecan tajacu) in Bastrop County, Texas (30.26245N, 97.31024W). Prior to this report, collared peccaries had been reported in western Texas and in the brush country south of San Antonio. There also are introduced populations in several counties in north-central Texas. The newly discovered population was in forests of post oak (Quercus stellata) and blackjack oak (Q marilandica), similar to the oak forest occupied by the population in Trans-Pecos Texas. Range extensions have been documented in northern New Mexico, western Texas, and eastern Texas. Whether or not the population in Bastrop County is an introduction or a range extension is unknown. Encontramos una nueva poblacin de pecar de collar (Pecari tajacu) en el condado de Bastrop, Texas (30.26245N, 97.31024O). Anteriormente, pcaris haban sido registrados en el occidente de Texas, en los chaparrales al sur de San Antonio, y en algunos condados del norte de Texas donde poblaciones han sido introducidas. La nueva poblacin fue encontrada en bosques de robles (Quercus stellata y Q. marilandica), un hbitat similar al bosque del roble donde vive la poblacin de pcaris de la zona Trans-Pecos. Aunque hay evidencias de la extensin del rango geogrfico de esta especie en el norte de Nuevo Mxico y el este y oeste de Texas, an no es claro si la poblacin del condado de Bastrop es introducida o una extensin de su rango de distribucin.
40588620|We report seven new records of the threatened Mexican hairy dwarf porcupine Sphiggurus mexicanus (formerly Coendou mexicanus) in southwestern Michoacn, Mexico. These records extend northwardly the known distribution of S. mexicanus along the Pacific coast into Michoacn, and constitute the first known occurrences in temperate pine and pine-oak forests. Although additional distributional data are needed, populations of S. mexicanus in western Michoacn may prove important for conservation planning and management of this threatened species. Reportamos siete nuevos registros del puercoespn amenazado Sphiggurus mexicanus (anteriormente Coendou mexicanus) en el suroeste del estado de Michoacn, Mxico. Estos registros extienden hacia al norte el lmite conocido de la distribucin para la vertiente del Pacfico a Michoacn y tambin constituyen el primer registro de la especie en bosques templados y bosques pino-encino). Aunque se requiere ms informacin sobre su distribucin, las poblaciones de S. mexicanus en el oeste de Michoacn pueden ser importantes para aspectos de planeacin de la conservacin y manejo de esta especie amenazada.
40801002|We investigated variation in environmental conditions and fish assemblages over space and time in the upper Red River drainage (Oklahoma-Texas) using samples from eight sites (three tributaries and five mainstems) collected monthly in 1989-1990 and again in 1998-1999. Fish assemblages varied spatially, with geographically ubiquitous and ecologically tolerant taxa dominating tributaries and obligate species of prairie minnows common in mainstems. At the regional scale, fish assemblages were predictable between time periods. This resulted from strong longitudinal structuring in fishes across sites, which likely was influenced by spatial variation in environmental conditions across the drainage. These patterns suggested that at the regional scale strong forcing of fish by their environment influenced predictability of fishes between time periods. At the local scale, predictability in fish assemblages between time periods differed across type of habitat. Specifically, assemblages in tributary sites varied randomly over time, whereas mainstem assemblages were predictable. We believe that local environmental conditions favored different suites of taxa in tributaries between time periods. When we compared variation in fish assemblages to variat ion in environmental conditions at both regional and local scales, we detected that structure of fish assemblages tracked environmental variability at the regional scale. However, at the local scale, fish assemblages did not track environmental conditions. This suggests that environmental variation may affect fishes in a relative sense across the drainage, whereas, within sites, fishes may be decoupled from environmental structuring-forces. Based on the predictable patterns in fishes within the Red River drainage, we propose that monitoring efforts, aimed at detecting human-induced changes in this system, should include a range of mainstem sites that capture the strong structuring forces that vary longitudinally within this river system. Investigamos la variacin de condiciones ambientales al igual que las comunidades de peces en tiempo y espacio en la parte superior del drenaje del ro Red, localizada entre los estados de Oklahoma y Texas. Se tomaron muestras en ocho sitios entre los cuales tres de ellos fueron tributarios y cinco de corriente principal. Estas muestras fueron colectadas cada mes durante los aos de 1989-1990 y 1998-1999. Las comunidades de peces variaron espacialmente, con taxa geogrficamente comn y tolerante a su medio ecolgico dominando tributarios y especies obligadas a la pradera comunes en las corrientes principales. A la escala regional, las comunidades de peces fueron predecibles entre periodos de tiempo. Esto puede ser resultado de una fuerte estructura longitudinal de peces a travs de las localidades, lo cual pudo ser influenciado por variacin espacial de condiciones ambientales a lo largo del drenaje. Estos patrones sugirieron que a la escala regional las fuerzas ambientales influyeron en las prediciones de peces entre periodos de tiempo. A la escala local, las predicciones de las comunidades de peces entre los periodos de tiempo difirieron de acuerdo al tipo de habitat. Especficamente, las comunidades en ros afluentes variaron al azar a travs del tiempo, mientras que las comunidades en los ros de corriente principal fueron predecibles. Creemos que las condiciones ambientales locales favorecieron los distintos grupos de taxa en los ros afluentes entre periodos de tiempo. Cuando comparamos la variacin de las comunidades de peces con la variacin en condiciones ambientales, tanto a la escala regional como a la escala local, detectamos que las comunidades de peces son capaces de rastrear la variacin ambiental a la escala regional. Sin embargo, a la escala local, las comunidades de peces no rastrearon las condiciones ambientales. Esto sugiere que la variacin ambiental puede afectar a los peces en un sentido relativo a travs del drenaje, mientras que entre localidades, los peces pueden estar desacoplados de las fuerzas ambientales organizadoras. Basados en los patrones predecibles de peces dentro del drenaje del ro Red, proponemos que los esfuerzos de monitoreo dirigidos a la deteccin de cambios en el sistema producidos por humanos debern incluir una serie de ros de corriente principal que capturen la fuerte estructuracin de las fuerzas que varan longitudinalmente dentro de este sistema hidrolgico.
40801003|In central Texas, western cottonmouths (Agkistrodon piscivorus) inhabit small, lowproductivity limestone streams characterized by variability in seasonal flows. An 11-year study of western cottonmouths was conducted at Honey Creek, a spring-fed stream flowing 3.2 km to its confluence with the Guadalupe River, Comal County, to determine how this predator used space in this narrow, linear, and dynamic system. During 57 searches along the 1,564-m study area, 39 sexually mature, 14 subadults, and 4 juvenile snakes were marked. Rates of recapture did not differ between sexes, but females outnumbered males (2.3: 1) and adults were recaptured more frequently than juveniles. Distances between captures were less than predicted if distributions were random, and distances did not vary with number of times captured or time between captures. En Texas central, la mocasn boca de algodn (Agkistrodon piscivorus) habita en pequeas corrientes de baja productividad con lecho de piedra caliza caracterizadas por variabilidad en flujos estacionales. Un estudio de 11 aos de la mocasn boca de algodn fue realizado en Honey Creek, una corriente, alimentada por manantiales, que fluye 3.2 km a su confluencia con el ro Guadalupe, condado de Comal, para determinar cmo este depredador us espacio en este sistema estrecho, lineal y dinmico. Durante 57 mustreos a lo largo del rea de estudio de 1,564 m, 39 adultos sexualmente maduros, 14 subadultos y 4 juveniles fueron marcados. Las tasas de recaptura no variaron entre los sexos, pero hubo ms hembras que machos (2.3:1) y los adultos fueron recapturados ms frecuentemente que los juveniles. Las distancias entre capturas fueron menos que lo pronosticado (si las distribuciones fueran aleatorias), y las distancias no variaron con el nmero de capturas, ni con el tiempo entre capturas.
40801004|The black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) is a colonial, burrowing ground squirrel. Its historic range has been reduced during the past 200 years mostly due to agricultural practices and related disturbance. Currently, urbanization is one of the biggest threats to colonies of prairie dogs in eastern New Mexico. As cities expand, colonies contract and become increasingly fragmented. Impacts of broad-scale landscape factors and disturbance by humans on behavior of blacktailed prairie dogs are unknown. To address these impacts, we chose two landscapes in eastern New Mexico, urban and rural. In spring 2006 and autumn-winter 2006-2007, we randomly selected six sites within each type of landscape and conducted 20 5-min behavioral observations at each site. We compared behavioral time budgets using the Mann-Whitney Latest. Black-tailed prairie dogs spent significantly more time being vigilant and gave more warning calls in urban areas, but they spent significantly more time foraging in rural areas. These results suggest that prairie dogs respond behaviorally to differences in type of landscape. Costs associated with higher levels of vigilance might translate as lower overall fitness due to decreased foraging in these populations. Landscape-level factors should be considered in future management decisions for this species. El perrito llanero de cola negra (Cynomys ludovicianus) es una ardilla que vive en colonias bajo tierra. Su distribucin histrica ha sido reducida durante los ltimos 200 aos debido principalmente a la agricultura y a los disturbios relacionados con ella. Actualmente, la urbanizacin es una de las amenazas ms fuertes para las colonias de perritos llaneros en el este de Nuevo Mxico. A medida que las ciudades se expanden, las colonias se contraen y van quedando cada vez ms fragmentadas. Los impactos de factores de gran escala del paisaje y los disturbios provocados por seres humanos en el comportamiento de los perritos llaneros de cola negra son desconocidos. Para enfocarnos en estos impactos, elegimos dos paisajes, uno urbano y uno rural, en el este de Nuevo Mxico. En la primavera del 2006 y durante el otoo-invierno del 2006-2007, elegimos al azar seis sitios dentro de cada tipo de paisaje y llevamos a cabo 20 observaciones de comportamiento de 5 minutos de duracin en cada sitio. Comparamos el uso del tiempo en relacin al comportamiento utilizando el test U de Mann-Whitney. Los perritos llaneros de cola negra pasaron significativamente ms tiempo vigilando y haciendo llamados de alerta en reas urbanas, en cambio pasaron significativamente ms tiempo pastando en reas rurales. Estos resultados sugieren que los perritos llaneros se comportan distinto dependiendo de las diferencias en el tipo de paisaje. Los costos asociados a niveles ms altos de vigilancia podran traducirse en una reduccin en la adecuacin total debido a una menor alimentacin en estas poblaciones. Los factores a nivel de paisaje deben considerarse en futuras decisiones de manejo para esta especie.
40801005|Data on activity patterns of the desert nightsnake (Hypsiglena chlorophaea) were obtained from 121 specimens. Hypsiglena chlorophaea was active on roads in central Washington during April-October. Specimens were collected at temperatures of 9.1-40.8  C. Males were collected more frequently than females during May, but in equal numbers during June and July, while more females were found in August-September. Hatchling snakes were collected in July-September. Hypsiglena chlorophaea was active 2100-0500 h. Snakes were collected more often during periods of low moon-light (e. g., new moon) than high moon-light (e.g., full moon). Se colectaron datos sobre patrones de actividad para 121 especmenes de la culebra nocturna (Hypsiglena chlorophaea). Hypsiglena chlorophaea estuvo activa en los caminos en el centro estado de Washington durante abril-octubre. Especmenes fueron recolectados entre temperaturas de 9.1-40.8C. En mayo se capturaron ms machos que hembras, pero en proporciones equivalentes durante junio y julio, y ms hembras en agosto y septiembre. Recin nacidos fueron recolectados desde julio hasta septiembre. Hypsiglena chlorophaea estuvo activa entre las 2100-0500 h. Las culebras se capturaron ms frecuentemente durante periodos de baja iluminacin lunar (por ejemplo, luna nueva) que durante alta iluminacin lunar (por ejemplo, luna llena).
40801006|Entomofauna in monospecific stands of the introduced Chinese tallow tree ( Sapium sebiferum) and native mixed woodlands was sampled in 1982 along the Texas coast and compared to samples of arthropods from an earlier study of native coastal prairie and from a study of arthropods in 5.sebiferum in 2004. Species diversity, richness, and abundance were highest in prairie, and were higher in mixed woodland than in S. sebiferum. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling distinguished orders and families of arthropods, and families of herbivores in S. sebiferum from mixed woodland and coastal prairie. Taxonomic similarity between S. sebiferum and mixed woodland was 51%. Fauna from S. sebiferum in 2001 was more similar to mixed woodland than to samples from S. sebiferum collected in 1982. These results indicate that the entomofauna in 5.sebiferum originated from mixed prairie and that, with time, these faunas became more similar. Species richness and abundance of herbivores was lower in 5.sebiferum, but proportion of total species in all trophic groups, except herbivores, was higher in 5.sebiferum than mixed woodland. Low concentration of tannin in leaves of S. sebiferum did not explain low loss of leaves to herbivores. Lower abundance of herbivores on introduced species of plants fits the enemy release hypothesis, and low concentration of defense compounds in the face of low number of herbivores fits the evolution of increased competitive ability hypothesis. Se muestre la entomofauna en un bosque monoespecfico del rbol de sebo (Sapium sebiferum) introducido y en un bosque mixto nativo en 1982 a lo lago de la costa en Texas y se compar con muestras de artrpodos de un estudio anterior de pradera costanera nativa y de un estudio de artrpodos en S. sebiferum en el 2004. La diversidad de las especies, la riqueza y la abundancia fueron ms altas en la pradera, y fueron ms altas en el bosque mixto que en S. sebiferum. Escalas multidimensionales no-mtricas distinguieron rdenes y familias de artrpodos, y familias de herbvoros en S. sebiferum del bosque mixto y de la pradera costanera. La similitud taxonmica entre S. sebiferumy el bosque mixto fue de 51 %. La fauna de S. sebiferum en el 2001 fue ms similar a la del bosque mixto que a las muestras de S. sebiferum colectadas en 1982. Estos resultados indican que la entomofauna en S.sebiferum se origin en pradera mixta y que, con tiempo, estas faunas se han parecido ms. La riqueza de las especies de herbvoros y su abundancia fueron ms bajas en S. sebiferum, pero la proporcin total de todas las especies en todos lo grupos trpicos, excepto herbvoros, fue ms alta en S. sebiferum que en el bosque mixto. La baja concentracin de tanina en las hojas de S. sebiferum no explic la baja prdida de hojas por herbvoros. La baja abundancia de herbvoros en especies de plantas introducidas encaja con la hiptesis de liberacin enemiga, y baja concentracin de compuestos de defensa debido al nmero bajo de herbvoros encaja con la hiptesis de evolucin de habilidad competitiva incrementada.
40801007|We conducted prescribed fires on Matagorda Island, Galhoun County, Texas, in late summers (August) and early winters (January) of 1992-1993 and 1993-1994 to determine responses of vegetation and litter. There were reduced litter loads 1 year after burning, but they approached preburn levels 2 years after burning. There was no difference in production of grasses, forbs, or the Juncus and other-Cyperaceae complex 1 year after burning. There was a significant difference in production of Juncus and other Cyperaceae when years were compared. We presume this was caused by differences in precipitation between years. There was no difference in percentage frequency between burned and control plots 1 year after burning for most species examined. However, burning in summer significantly increased occurrences of coastal mistflower (Conoclinium betonifolium) , Fabaceae, and Cyperaceae (other than Juncus) over control plots 1 year after treatment. Beach groundcherry (Physalis cinerascens) and Fabaceae also were increased by burning in summer 2 years following treatment. Prescribed burning did not affect density of vertical structure. Because coastal barrier islands serve as important wintering grounds and stopovers for many migratory birds, we recommend conducting burns in late summer every 25 years to increase incidence of legumes and other forage for wildlife. Con el objetivo de determinar la respuesta de la vegetacin y hojarasca a la aplicacin del fuego, se hicieron quemas prescritas en la isla de Matagorda durante el verano (agosto) e invierno (enero) de 1992-1993 y 1993-1994. Hubo una reduccin en la hojarasca un ao despus de la quema, pero dos aos despus de la quema se acerc a los niveles observados antes de la misma. No se encontraron diferencias en produccin de pastos, herbceas o de Juncus y otras del complejo Cyperaceae un ao despus de la quema. Se observaron diferencias significativas en la produccin de Juncus y otras Ciperceas cuando los tratamientos se compararon entre aos, lo cual se atribuye a la diferencia de precipitacin. No se presentaron diferencias en porcentaje de frecuencia entre el control y parcelas quemadas un ao despus de la quema para la mayora de las especies estudiadas. Sin embargo, la quema de verano increment significativamente la ocurrencia de Conoclinium betonicifolium, Fabaceae y Cyperaceae (adems de Juncus) comparada con parcelas control un ao despus de la quema. Physalis cinerascens y Fabaceae tambin se incrementaron debido a la quema de verano dos aos despus de la misma. La quema prescrita no afect la densidad estructural vertical. Debido a que islas costeras constituyen una importante rea invernal y de estancia para muchas aves migratorias, se recomienda la quema tarda en verano cada dos a cinco aos para incrementar la incidencia de legumbres y otros forrajes para especies de fauna silvestre.
40801008|Livetrapping small mammals is a common tool for surveying diversity and determining size of populations, but studies in the southern United States often are complicated by the red imported fire ant (Solenopsis invicta). We tested effectiveness of four chemical repellents applied around Sherman live traps to deter fire ants from removing bait and mutilating captured mammals (Borax, granules of pyrethrum, Raid Ant and Roach Spray, and carbaryl flea powder). A significant difference among repellents was detected, with carbaryl flea powder and Raid Ant and RoachSprayperforming best.Carbaryl flea powder significantly reduced occurrence of fire ants in baited traps, while diversity and rates of capture for small mammals were unaffected. El trampeo de los mamferos pequeos vivos es una herramienta comn para examinar la diversidad de el tamao poblacional, pero los estudios en el sur de los Estados Unidos muchas veces estn complicados por la presencia de la hormiga roja de fuego importada (Solenopsis invicta). Fue probada la eficacia de cuatro diversos productos qumicos (Brax, granulos de pyrethrum, Raid Ant and Roach Spray, y polvo carbaryl anti-pulga) aplicados alrededor de las trampas-vivas tipo Sherman para repeler a las hormigas del cebo e impedirles mutilar a los mamferos atrapados. Una diferencia significativa entre los repelentes fue encontrada, con polvo carbaryl anti-pulga y Raid Ant and Roach Spray desempendose mejor. Carbaryl anti-pulga redujo significativamente la ocurrencia de las hormigas en trampas con cebo, mientras que la diversidad y tasas de captura de mamferos pequeos no fueron afectadas.
40801009|Mist-netting and acoustic monitoring was used to determine occurrence, activity, and use of habitats by bats at Montezuma Castle (i. e., Montezuma Castle Unit and Montezuma Well Unit), Tonto, and Tuzigoot national monuments, Arizona. All calls were visualized by generating sonograms and identified to species except for Myotis, because of similarity between calls within this genus. We used discriminate analysis to identify calls of Myotis to species. Riparian and marsh vegetational associations had the highest overall activity, except at Montezuma Castle Unit where desert, riparian, and transition vegetational associations had similar overall activity. Use of acoustic monitoring and mist-netting enabled us to detect one to eight more species, depending on site, than if only one technique had been used. Se utilizaron redes de niebla y monitoreo acstico para determinar ocurrencia, actividad, y el uso de habitat por murcilagos en el Montezuma Castle (i. e., Montezuma Castle Unit y Montezuma Well Unit), y los monumentos nacionales de Tonto y Tuzigoot, Arizona. Todos los chillidos fueron visualizados mediante la generacin de sonogramas e identificados a nivel de especies a excepcin de Myotis, debido a la alta similitud de chillidos dentro de este gnero. Se utiliz anlisis discriminatorio para identificar chillidos de distintas especies de Myotis. La mayor actividad se registr en las asociaciones de vegetacin riberea y de cinagas, excepto en el Montezuma Castle Unit donde las asociaciones de vegetacin desrtica, riberea, y transicional presentaron patrones similares de actividad. El monitoreo acstico y el uso de redes de niebla nos permitieron detectar uno a ocho ms especies, dependiendo del sitio, en comparacin con el uso de una sola tcnica.
40801010|We studied demography and behavior of endangered Mount Graham red squirrels (Tamiasurus hudsonicus grahamensis) inhabiting areas within and outside low-intensity burns following the Nuttall Fire in the Pinaleo Mountains, Arizona. Body mass, proportion of individuals in reproductive condition, and distance squirrels traveled to nest did not differ between squirrels within and outside the perimeter of the fire. Within the perimeter, red squirrels had smaller home ranges and shifted territories less frequently and had shorter distances from their previously held territories than squirrels outside the perimeter. Mount Graham red squirrels evolved with patchy, low-intensity fires like those that burned in mixed-conifer forests in the Pinaleo Mountains and may be able to persist in areas affected by this level of disturbance. Estudiamos la demografa y el comportamiento de las ardillas rojas (Tamiasurus hudsonicus grahamensis) amenazadas que habitan dentro y fuera de las reas quemadas de baja intensidad que siguieron al incendio Nuttall en las montaas Pinaleo, Arizona. La masa corporal, proporcin de individuos en condicin reproductiva y la distancia recorrida por las ardillas al nido no difirieron entre las ardillas dentro y fuera del permetro del incendio. Dentro del permetro del incendio, las ardillas rojas tuvieron rangos de hogar mas pequeos, se cambiaron de territorios menos frecuentemente y se desplazaron distancias ms cortas desde sus territorios anteriores que las ardillas fuera del permetro. Las ardillas rojas evolucionaron con incendios irregulares de baja intensidad como los que se presentaron en los bosques mixtos de coniferas en las montaas Pinaleo y pueden ser capaces de persistir en reas afectadas por este nivel de perturbacin.
40801011|Previous studies have shown that determining sex of adult white-winged doves (Zenaida asiatica) by cloacal characteristics is highly reliable (90%), while using plumage characteristics and body weights are less so. The drawback of the cloacal technique is that the procedure requires use of a modified nasal speculum to probe the cloacal area, which could possibly cause injury to the bird. We hypothesized that females have a wider pelvis than males for the passage of eggs, which should be quantifiable, thereby providing a means of separating adult males and females. We measured pelvic spread (distance from tip to tip of pelvis) of adults (n = 249). Additionally, body masses were taken for a subset (n = 215) of the doves. Sex was positively determined by either cloacal examination of live birds or gonad examination of dead birds. Mean pelvic spread of males was significantly less than that of females. Whole body mass was not correlated with pelvic spread for either sex. Accuracy of the pelvic spread technique was 70%. We concluded that the resolution obtainable through determination of sex by pelvic spread in live adult white-winged doves was inadequate for the needs of most field researchers. Estudios previos han demostrado que la tcnica para determinar el sexo de adultos de la paloma alas blancas (Zenaida asiatica) por las caractersticas de la cloaca es muy confiable (90%), ms que la tcnica basada en las caractersticas del plumaje y el peso corporal. Una limitacin de la tcnica cloacal es que es necesario el uso de un espculo nasal modificado para insertar en la cloaca, lo cual pudiera lastimar al ave. Formulamos la hiptesis que las hembras tienen la pelvis ms ancha que los machos debido a la postura de huevos y que la medicin de esta caracterstica permitira distinguir los sexos. Hicimos mediciones de la anchura plvica (distancia entre las dos puntas de la pelvis) de adultos (n = 249). Adicionalmente, a un subconjunto (n = 215) se le tom el peso corporal. El sexo fue confirmado examinando la cloaca en especmenes vivos, o bien las gnadas de aves muertas. El promedio de la anchura plvica de los machos fue significativamente menor que el de las hembras. El peso corporal no estuvo relacionado con la anchura de la pelvis en ningn sexo. La certeza de la tcnica involucrando la anchura plvica fue de un 70%. Concluimos que determinar el sexo de palomas vivas usando la tcnica de la anchura plvica no provee la certeza requerida por la mayora de los investigadores.
40801012|Creeks in the Pinaleno Mountains of Arizona were renovated in the 1960s to remove nonnative salmonids, and were stocked with native Apache trout (Oncorhynchus apache). Cursory observations of distribution of fish following attempts to transplant have been reported, but following the Clarks Peak Fire of 1996 more thorough investigations of the aquatic communities were needed. In 1997, we sampled communities of fish with a backpack electron" sher and we collected aquatic invertebrates with a dip-net. Lengths of fish were recorded and scales were removed for assessment of age. We collected 398 putative Apache trout 60-257 mm in length and 0-3 years of age from four creeks, while four others contained no fish. Densities of invertebrates were variable and did not appear to be correlated with presence of fish or drainage. Translocation of Apache trout to Grant and Ash creeks has resulted in reproducing populations of trout with adequate densities and rates of growth to serve as potential future sources of fish for stocking. Marijilda Canyon and Big creeks also supported reproducing populations, but at a much lower density and may not be suitable as sources of fish for stocking. However, genetic information from these populations is needed to determine their suitability for service as replicate stocks. Los riachuelos en las montaas Pinaleno de Arizona fueron restaurados en la dcada de 1960 para eliminar salmnidos exticos y fueron abastecidos con la trucha apache (Oncorhynchus apache) nativa. Se han reportado observaciones casuales de la distribucin de peces despus de intentos de traslado, pero despus del incendio forestal de Clarks Peak en 1996 fue necesario hacer investigaciones ms profundas de las comunidades acuticas. En 1997, muestreamos las comunidades de peces con un equipo de electro-pesca porttil, y capturamos invertebrados acuticos con una red de mano. Se midieron las longitudes de los peces y se removieron unas escamas para determinar la edad. Colectamos 398 truchas las cuales supuestamente eran la trucha apache con un rango de 60-257 mm de largo y de 0-3 aos de edad en cuatro riachuelos mientras que los otros cuatro riachuelos no tuvieron peces. Las densidades de invertebrados fueron muy variables y no pareci existir una correlacin con la presencia de peces o drenaje. El traslado de la trucha apache a las corrientes Grant y Ash ha resultado en poblaciones reproductoras de trucha con densidades adecuadas y tasas de crecimiento que servirn como fuentes potenciales de abastecimiento para el futuro. Los riachuelos Marijilda Canyon y Big tambin sostuvieron poblaciones reproductoras pero a una muy baja densidad y posiblemente no sean adecuadas como fuentes de abastecimiento. Sin embargo, la informacin gentica de estas poblaciones ser necesaria para determinar su capacidad para servir como fuentes de material reproductor.
40801013|We estimated species richness, distribution, and relative abundance of herpetofauna across a 1,800-m elevation gradient in the Rincon Mountains and compared patterns of occurrence of species with other mountain ranges in southeastern Arizona. We detected 2,378 individuals of 40 species during 596 h of visual-encounter surveys, and 1,793 individuals including six additional species incidentally during 2001 and 2002. Based on probabilistic methods, we estimate that as many as 57 species likely are present in the Rincn Mountains; past observations and expert opinion also suggest as many as 57 species likely are present. Species richness declined with increasing elevation. Relative abundance declined with increasing elevation for seven species, increased with elevation for three species, and was greatest at middle elevations for three species. The Rincn Mountains lack some species that occur in nearby mountain ranges of similar size and elevation, possibly due to climatic or historical factors. Our study was the first detailed inventory of herpetofauna in the Rincn Mountains at a time when these communities may be undergoing significant change. Estimamos la riqueza de especies, su distribucin y la abundancia relativa de herpetofauna a lo largo de un gradiente de 1,800 m de elevacin en las montaas Rincon durante 2001 y 2002 y comparamos los patrones de la presencia de especies en otras sierras en el sureste de Arizona. Detectamos 2,378 individuos de 40 especies durante 596 horas de muestreos visuales, y 1,793 ms individuos colectados incidentalmente (incluyendo otras seis especies). Con base en mtodos de probabilidad, estimamos que 57 especies probablemente ocurren en las montaas Rincon; observaciones anteriores tambin sugieren que 57 especies probablemente se encuentran all. La riqueza de especies disminuy con el incremento en la elevacin; la abundancia relativa disminuy con el aumento en la elevacin para siete especies, aument con la elevacin para tres especies y fue mayor en elevaciones medias para tres especies. Las montaas Rincn carecen de algunas especies que ocurren en cordilleras cercanas de tamao y elevacin similar, debido posiblemente a factores climticos o histricos. Nuestro estudio fue el primer inventario detallado de herpetofauna en las montaas Rincn al mismo tiempo que estas comunidades pueden estar sufriendo cambios importantes.
40801014|Cowleech Prairie Preserve, located on the Cowleech Fork of the Sabine River, Hunt County, northeastern Texas, is a wet-to-mesic blackland prairie-wetland complex that represents a plant community currently undescribed by the National Vegetation Classification. However, it bears similarities with those globally imperiled communities having eastern gamagrass (Tripsacum dactyloides) as a first-order dominant. Objectives of this study were to document floristic composition and examine changes in composition and dominance of species from late spring to early autumn and to better define classification of this community as a recognized association. We collected data on species richness, composition, ground cover, and abundance of forbs during early autumn 2003 and late spring 2004. Total number of species (species richness) recorded was 56 in autumn and 61 in spring. However, these seasonal differences in species richness were not significant. Poaceae (grasses) was the most dominant family in autumn, with gamagrass forming the most predominant ground cover. In contrast, sedges and forbs were dominant in spring. Many species of forbs (47.0% in spring and 62.0% in autumn) had a limited distribution among transects, occurring in only one of five transects during the two seasons. In addition, 21.4 and 29.5% of species of forbs were unique to autumn and spring, respectively. Beautiful false dragonhead (Physostegia pukheUa) , a species endemic to the blackland prairies of Texas, was recorded in spring. This study represents the first comprehensive floristic documentation of the Cowleech Prairie Preserve. La reserva Cowleech Prairie, ubicada en el tributario Cowleech del ro Sabina, condado de Hunt, en el noreste de Texas, es un complejo que vara de humedales a hbitat msico. El complejo presenta una comunidad de plantas que actualmente est sin describir por la National Vegetation Classification. Sin embargo, se parece a esas comunidades globalmente imperantes que tiene el pasto Tripsacum dactyloides como una especie dominante del primer orden. Los objetivos de este estudio fueron documentar la composicin de la flora y examinar los cambios en la composicin y la dominancia de especies desde fines de la primavera hasta comienzos del otoo, y definir mejor la clasificacin de esta comunidad como una asociacin reconocida. Colectamos datos sobre la riqueza de especies, composicin, cobertura y abundancia de herbceas durante el otoo temprano del 2003 y la primavera tarda del 2004. El nmero total de especies recolectadas (riqueza de especies) fue 56 en el otoo y 61 en la primavera. Sin embargo, las diferencias estacionales en la riqueza de especies no fueron significativas. La familia Poacea fue la ms dominante en el otoo, siendo el pasto T. dactyloides el ms predominante en cobertura. En contraste, las ciperceas y las herbceas fueron dominantes en la primavera. Muchas especies de herbceas (47.0% en la primavera y 62.0% en el otoo) tuvieron una distribucin limitada entre transectos, ocurriendo slo en uno de los cinco transectos durante las dos temporadas. En adicin, 21.4 y 29.5% de las especies de herbceas fueron nicas al otoo y a la primavera, respectivamente. Physostegia pulchella, una especie endmica de las praderas blackland de Texas fue recolectada en la primavera. Este estudio representa el primer compendio amplio de la flora de la reserva Cowleech Prairie.
40801015|In an ongoing experiment, we investigated how mating behaviors of male western mosquitofish Gambusia affinis change across a range of temperatures. During behavioral trials, we observed high levels of homosexual behavior between males when in a competitive situation. We observed that when two males are in competition for matings with females, the smaller male performed significantly more homosexual acts than the larger. These results suggest that a dominance relationship develops with males in competition, where large males may dominate small males by not allowing them to copulate with the female, thereby causing an increase in same-sex mating by smaller males. Although preliminary data also indicate a possible relationship between density of males and number of homosexual copulations, we were not able to statistically analyze the relationship because these observations occurred during an ongoing experiment. In a future study, we will seek to understand underlying causes of homosexual behavior in the western mosquitofish. En un experimento en curso, investigamos cmo el macho del guayacn mosquito (Gambusia affinis) cambia su comportamiento de apareamiento a travs de un rango de temperaturas. Durante pruebas de comportamiento en situaciones competitivas se observaron altos niveles de homosexualidad entre los machos. Observamos que cuando dos machos estuvieron en competencia para copular con hembras, el macho pequeo realiz ms actos homosexuales que el macho grande. Estos resultados sugieren que una relacin de dominancia se crea cuando hay machos en competencia para apareamiento. Los machos de mayor tamao pueden dominar a los machos pequeos e impedirles aparearse con las hembras, causando as un incremento en el apareamiento del mismo sexo por machos pequeos. Aunque los datos preliminares tambin indican una posible relacin entre el nmero de actos homosexuales y la densidad de machos, no pudimos analizar esta relacin estadsticamente porque se hicieron las observaciones durante un experimento en curso. En un futuro estudio, procuraremos entender las causas de comportamiento homosexual del guayacn mosquito.
40801016|We studied size and fidelity of home ranges of adult ( 3.5 years) male white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) during 2 years in southern Texas. Size of core areas, determined using the 50% fixed-kernel method, averaged 86  14 ha, whereas size of home ranges, determined using the 95% fixed-kernel method, averaged 403  61 ha. Deer shifted centroide of home ranges 363  45 m from year 1 to year 2. Overlap in home ranges averaged 66  2% between years. These data provide additional support that home ranges of adult male white-tailed deer in southern Texas are relatively small and stable. However, the majority of home ranges are larger than most landholdings. Therefore, development of cooperatives among neighboring landowners may be necessary to effectively manage age structure of males. Estudiamos el tamao y fidelidad del rango de hogar de machos adultos (3.5 aos) del venado cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus) durante dos aos en el sur de Texas. El tamao de las reas ncleo, determinado mediante del mtodo de fixed-kernel al 50%, promedi 86  14 ha, mientras el tamao del rango de hogar, determinado mediante del mtodo de fixed-kernel al 95%, promedi 403  61 ha. Los centroides del rango de hogar cambiaron 363  45 m entre el primer y segundo ao. El traslape en rangos de hogar entre aos promedi 66  2%. Estos datos proveen un apoyo adicional de que los rangos de hogar del macho adulto del venado cola blanca en el sur de Texas son relativamente pequeos y estables. Sin embargo, la mayora de los rangos de hogar son ms grandes que las tierras de los ranchos. Por lo tanto, el desarrollo de cooperativas entre los dueos de ranchos vecinos puede ser necesario para manejar efectivamente la estructura de edad de los machos.
40801017|During a radio-tracking study of North American beavers (Castor canadensis) in Arizona, we discovered three adult, lactating beavers using the same bank den at the same time. Two adult females 5.2 km downstream also were using the same den at the same time. For the first case, we documented use of communal dens by lactating adults on seven occasions during 68 days. For the second case, we documented communal use of a den on three occasions during 45 days. To test the hypothesis that these communal females were closely related, we used eight autosomal DNA microsatellites. Two females in the first den were first-order relatives. However, the other communal females were unrelated to the females with which they shared the den. We conclude that communal denning, where multiple females raise one or more litters in the same den, may have occurred in our study area and communal-denning partners are, in some cases, close kin. Durante un estudio de radiotelemetra del castor (Castor canadensis) en Arizona, descubrimos tres hembras adultas en lactancia usando simultneamente la misma madriguera. Dos hembras adultas localizadas 5.2 kilmetros ro abajo tambin utilizaban la misma madriguera al mismo tiempo. Para el primer caso, documentamos el uso comunal de madrigueras por adultas en lactancia siete veces durante 68 das. En el segundo caso, documentamos el uso por las hembras adultas de la madriguera comunal en tres ocasiones durante 45 das. Para probar la hiptesis que estas hembras comunales estuvieron estrechamente relacionadas, utilizamos ocho microsatlites de ADN autosmicos. Dos hembras en la primera madriguera tenan parentesco de primer orden. Sin embargo, las otras hembras comunales no tenan relacin de parentesco entre las que compartan la madriguera. Llegamos a la conclusin que madrigueras comunales, donde varias hembras cran una o ms carnadas en la misma madriguera, puede haber ocurrido en nuestra rea de estudio, y los co-habitantes de madrigueras son, en algunos casos, parientes cercanos.
40801018|We collected a mite, Acomatacarus arizonensis, for the first time from the states of Coahuila and Durango, Mexico. It had been reported previously only in Mexico from the Peninsula of Baja California and from Guerrero. Larvae of this mite was parasitizing the endemic lizards Sceloporus cyanostictus and Crotaphytus antiquus in the Sierra San Lorenzo, Matamoros, Coahuila, Mexico, and Sceloporus jarrovii in the Valle de las Piedras Encimadas, Dinamita, Durango, Mexico. Se registra por primera vez para los estados de Coahuila y Durango, a Acomatacarus arizonensis, un caro que en Mxico slo se haba reportado en la Pennsula de Baja California y en el estado de Guerrero. Se encontraron larvas de este caro parasitando a los saurios endmicos Sceloporus cyanostictus y Crotaphytus antiquus en la Sierras San Lorenzo, Matamoros, Coahuila, Mxico y a Sceloporus jarrovii en el Valle de las Piedras Encimadas, Dinamita, Durango, Mxico.
40801019|We used microsatellite analysis to investigate possible reproduction by parthenogenesis in the bisexual Sierra garter snake, Thamnophis couchii. The genotypes of four microsatellite loci were determined for each of four individuals, including three T. couchii two of which were a female and her offspring, and T. ordinoides. The female T. couchii and her offspring were homozygous and identical for all four microsatellite loci; however, Ts3 and Ts4 are the only loci that supported reproduction by parthenogenesis as Tsl and Ts2 were uninformative. These data along with absence of a unique paternal alele and known absence of an opportunity to mate prior to and during captivity is consistent with reproduction by parthenogenesis. Utilizamos el anlisis de microsatlites para investigar la posible reproduccin por partenognesis de la culebra-listonada bisexual, Thamnophis couchii. Fueron determinados los genotipos de cuatro loci de microsatlites para cada uno de cuatro individuos, incluyendo tres T. couchii, dos de los cuales fueron una hembra y su cra, y T. ordinoides. La T. couchii hembra y su cra fueron homozigticos e idnticos para los cuatro loci de microsatlites; sin embargo, Ts3 y Ts4 son los nicos loci que apoyaron la reproduccin por partenognesis puesto que Tsl y Ts2 no rindieron ninguna informacin. Estos datos junto con la falta de un alelo paternal nico y la conocida falta de oportunidad para aparear antes de y durante el cautiverio son consistentes con la reproduccin por partenognesis.
40801020|We report apparent prdation by coyotes (Cants latrans) on one of two male pronghorns (Antilocapra americana) that were locked together. When the locked pronghorns first were spotted at 2030 h, both were alive, one standing and the other on the ground wounded by a horn of his opponent. At ca. 0230 h, four coyotes were seen within 150 m of the pronghorns. At 0630 h, the wounded pronghorn had been partially eaten, presumably by the coyotes, and the other pronghorn freed himself from the carcass and walked away. Reportamos la aparente depredacin por coyotes (Canis latrans) en uno de dos antlopes machos (Antilocapra americana) que estaban atorados juntos. Cuando los antlopes que estaban atorados fueron vistos por primera vez a las 2030 h, ambos estaban vivos, uno parado y el otro en el suelo, herido por un cuerno de su oponente. Aproximadamente a las 0230 h, cuatro coyotes fueron vistos a unos 150 m de los antlopes. A las 0630 h, el antlope herido haba sido comido parcialmente por los coyotes, y el otro antlope se liber del cuerpo del animal muerto y se fue.
40801021|The genus Cycleptus is widely distributed in the Mississippi, Missouri, and Ohio rivers and in Gulf-slope drainages, including the Rio Grande. Recent genetic evidence suggests that Cycleptus in the Rio Grande is an undescribed species; however, there are few specimens from Mexico. These include two records from the Ro Conchos, two from the Rio Grande and another from the Ro Salado. In 1954, Cycleptus was reported in two localities in the Ro Conchos: 1.6 km N Saucillo and 1 km above the confluence of the Rio Grande and the Ro Conchos. After a purported absence of 51 years, it has been rediscovered in three localities in the state of Chihuahua: the mouth of the Ro Conchos at Rio Grande, Cuchillo Parado, and Ro Conchos at El Alamo. El gnero Cycleptus se encuentra ampliamente en los ros Mississippi, Missouri y Ohio y en las cuencas que drenan hacia el Golfo, incluyendo el ro Grande. Estudios genticos recientes sugieren que los peces de Cycleptus en el ro Grande son una especie no descrita, sin embargo hay muy pocos especmenes de Mxico. Entre estos figuran dos para el ro Conchos, dos para el ro Grande y otro del ro Salado. En 1954, Cycleptus fue reportado en dos localidades en el ro Conchos: 1.6 km N Saucillo y otro de 1 km arriba de la confluencia del ro Grande y ro Conchos. Despus de una supuesta ausencia de 51 aos, este ha sido redescubierto en tres localidades en el estado de Chihuahua: la boca del ro Conchos en el ro Grande, Cuchillo Parado y ro Conchos en El lamo.
40801022|This study documents the red crossbill (Loxia curvirostra) from the Cerro El Potos region, Nuevo Len, Mexico. Adults were observed at different sites and elevations in December 2006 and again in July and August 2007. A juvenile male was observed in August 2007. These multiple seasonal observations, as well as presence of a juvenile, indicate an established population in the area of Cerro El Potos. This report adds the red crossbill to the list of permanent avian residents for Nuevo Len. Este estudio documenta al gorrin rojo pico cruzado (Loxia curvirostra) para la regin del Cerro del Potos, Nuevo Len, Mxico. Adultos fueron observados en diferentes sitios y elevaciones en diciembre de 2006 y nuevamente en julio y agosto de 2007. Un macho juvenil fue observado en agosto de 2007. Estas mltiples observaciones estacionales, as como la presencia de un juvenil, indican una poblacin estable en el rea del Cerro El Potos. Este reporte adiciona al gorrin rojo pico cruzado a la lista de aves residentes permanentes para Nuevo Len.
40801023|The range of the northern pygmy mouse (Baiomys taylori) continues to expand through Texas and into adjacent states. We report a new record for B. taylori in Hunt County, near its poorly understood northeastern limit in Texas. This record, together with results from other recent surveys, suggests that the northern pygmy mouse might only now be realizing the extent of range projected in the literature > 25 years ago. El rango de distribucin del ratn pigmeo norteo (Baiomys taylori) contina expandindose a travs de Texas y en estados adyacentes. Reportamos un nuevo registro para B. taylori en el condado de Hunt, cerca de su lmite poco conocido en el noreste de Texas. Este registro, junto con los reportes de otros mustreos recientes, sugieren que el ratn pigmeo norteo solamente hasta ahora puede estar ampliando la extensin de su rango la cual fue proyectada en la literatura hace > 25 aos.
40801024|The Georgetown salamander, Eurycea naufragia, is a permanently neotenic salamander known only from about a dozen surface springs and caves in Williamson County, Texas. Rapid urbanization places all known populations at risk and conservation strategies are hindered by a lack of information on the ecology of the species. To better understand requirements of microhabitat and spatial distribution of E. naufragia within flows of surface springs, we conducted counts of salamanders on the surface at one locality over a 12-month period. Numbers of salamanders and percentage of cover objects occupied by salamanders varied among months, with a general trend of higher abundance in spring and summer. Few juveniles were observed, and there was no strong seasonal trend in distribution of size of salamanders. Within the flow of the spring, abundance of salamanders decreased linearly with distance from origin of the spring. Salamanders were more likely to be under rocks than under other types of cover objects and they selected larger rocks. Larger salamanders occupied larger cover objects; rocks covering multiple salamanders were larger than those covering single salamanders. La salamandra Eurycea naufragia es una salamandra permanentemente neotnica conocida solamente de una docena de manantiales superficiales y cuevas en el condado de Williamson de Texas. La rpida urbanizacin que ocurre en las reas donde habita la especie pone a todas las poblaciones conocidas en riesgo, pero las estrategias de conservacin son impedidas por falta de informacin bsica sobre su ecologa. Para entender mejor las necesidades del microhabitat y la distribucin espacial de E. naufragia dentro de los flujos de los manantiales superficiales, contamos el nmero de salamandras en la superficie de una localidad por un perodo de doce meses. La cantidad de salamandras y el porcentaje de objetos de cubierta utilizados por las salamandras variaron de mes en mes, con una tendencia general de ms abundancia durante los meses de la primavera y del verano. Observamos muy pocos juveniles, y no hubo ninguna fuerte tendencia estacional en las distribuciones del tamao de las salamandras. Dentro del flujo del manantial, la abundancia de las salamandras disminuy linealmente con la distancia del nacimiento del manantial. Fue ms probable encontrar salamandras debajo de piedras que debajo de otros tipos de objetos de cubierta y las salamandras eligieron piedras ms grandes. Las salamandras ms grandes ocuparon objetos de cubierta ms grandes; las piedras cubriendo mltiples salamandras fueron ms grandes que las que cubrieron salamandras individuales.
40801025|A recent survey of the lower Brazos River in Grimes and Washington counties, Texas, resulted in the first record of a living population of Trundlla macrodon since its description in 1859. Trundlla macrodon is endemic to the Brazos and Colorado basins of central Texas. Anthropogenic impacts resulted in a decline in abundance and distribution for this species prior to extensive scientific study. Given the absence of information on natural history for this species, we documented preliminary physical and biological characteristics associated with this population. Un reciente estudio realizado en la parte abaja del ro Brazos en los condados de Grimes y Washington, Texas, result en el primer registro de una poblacin de Truncilla macrodon desde su descripcin inicial en 1859. Trundlla macradon es una especie endmica a las cuencas de los ros Brazos y Colorado, en el centro de Texas. Impactos antropognicos resultaron en una reduccin en la abundancia y distribucin de esta especie antes de que se realizaran estudios cientficos sobre la misma. Debido a la ausencia de informacin sobre la historia natural de esta especie, documentamos caractersticas biolgicas y fsicas preliminares asociadas a esta poblacin.
40801029|In Mexico, the area from the delta of the Colorado River to southern Colima (ca.2,000 km) is a transition zone from the most arid deserts of North America to tropical rainforests. Data for temperature and precipitation from 254 meteorological stations, along with field data, were used to analyze relationships between climate and vegetation. Several bioclimatic classification schemes were contrasted to explain distribution of the main types of vegetation. Vegetation follows a spatial arrangement associated with a north-south rainfall gradient, i.e., hyperarid and arid shrub deserts in a tropical-desert bioclimate, semiarid thornscrubs or thornforests and dry summer-green deciduous forests in a tropical-xeric bioclimate, and semi-evergreen rainforests in a tropical-pluviseasonal bioclimate. This main gradient is strongly related to two moisture-defined zones: the northern subtropical high-pressure cell, which controls the zone of lesser rainfall with a tropical-desert bioclimate, and the trade wind belt, which causes most rainfall in rainier zones. This zonal pattern can, however, be substantially modified by local factors, mainly mountain rainshadows. En Mxico, el rea comprendida entre el delta del ro Colorado y el sur de Colima (ca.2,000 km) es una zona de transicin entre los desiertos ms ridos de Norteamrica y los bosques de lluvia tropicales. Los datos de precipitacin y temperatura procedentes de 254 estaciones meteorolgicas, junto con datos de campo, se utilizaron para analizar las relaciones entre clima y vegetacin. Se contrastaron varios sistemas de clasificacin bioclimtica para explicar la distribucin de los principales tipos de vegetacin. La vegetacin sigue un modelo de distribucin espacial ligado a un gradiente norte-sur de precipitaciones, con matorrales de desiertos ridos e hiperridos en las zonas con bioclima tropical-desrtico, matorrales y bosques espinosos o selvas caducifolias de verano bajo bioclima tropical-xrico, y con bosques semiperennifolios en reas con bioclima tropical-pluviestacional.Este gradiente principal est fuertemente relacionado con dos zonas de humedad: la clula septentrional subtropical de altas presiones que controla la zona de precipitaciones ms bajas con bioclima tropical-desrtico, y el ein turn de los vientos alisios que causa la mayor parte de lluvia en las zonas con mayores precipitaciones. No obstante, este modelo espacial puede ser sustancialmente modificado por factores locales, principalmente por sombras de lluvias provocadas por las cadenas montaosas.
40801030|This study characterized loss in body mass by the cave myotis, Myotis velifer, in 7 hibernation seasons (October-March 1979-1986) in western Oklahoma. Average mass entering hibernation was 14.4 g for males and 15.4 g for females. At the end of hibernation, average mass of males and females was 11.5 and 12.0 g, respectively. Males lost an average of 2.9 g (20.1%) and females lost 3.4 g (22.1%).During hibernation, males and females lost 0.021 and 0.024 g/day, respectively. We detected no difference in rate of loss of mass between the first and second halves of hibernation for either sex. Males and females lost 3.8 and 4.1 g, respectively, during 2005-2006, when only two visits were made to the cave (October and March). These values for loss in mass were slightly more than losses recorded for males and females when bats were sampled each month during hibernation. Este estudio caracteriza la prdida del peso corporal de los murcilagos, Myotis velifer, en 7 estaciones de la hibernacin (octubre-marzo 1979-1986) en Oklahoma occidental. El peso mediano al inicio de la hibernacin para los machos fue 14.4 g y para las hembras 15.4 g. El peso mediano de machos y de hembras al final de la hibernacin fue 11.5 y 12.0 g, respectivamente. Los machos perdieron un promedio de 2.9 g (20.1%) y las hembras perdieron 3.4 g (22.1%). Durante la hibernacin, los machos y las hembras perdieron 0.021 y 0.024 g/dia, respectivamente. No detectamos ninguna diferencia en la tasa de la prdida del peso entre la primera y segunda mitad de la hibernacin para ambos sexos. Machos y hembras perdieron 3.8 g y 4.1 g, respectivamente, durante 2005-2006 cuando solamente se hicieron dos visitas a la cueva (octubre y marzo). Estos valores de la prdida de peso fueron levemente ms que la prdida del peso registrada para machos y hembras cuando los murcilagos fueron muestreados cada mes durante la hibernacin.
40801031|We analyzed temporal variation in abundance of hibernating bats from long-term records (1965-2004) in gypsum caves of the Red Hills of Kansas and Oklahoma, a region lying at peripheries of geographic ranges of four species of bats. Nonparametric correlation analyses were used to evaluate variation in abundances of five species among 12 hibemacula. Townsend's big-eared bat (Corynorhinus townsendii) showed no significant change in abundance among most of its hibemacula, but exhibited one increase and one decrease in abundance in two hibemacula. The cave myotis (Myotis velifer) displayed increasing abundance in some hibemacula (27% of hibemacula,  = 3) and one decrease (9% of hibemacula,  = 1). The tri-colored bat (Penmyotis subflavus) exhibited increasing abundance in 60% (n = 6) of its hibemacula. The pallid bat (Antrozous pallidus) and big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus) exhibited no statistically significant change in size of population in any hibernaculum, although the pallid bat occurred infrequently and in low numbers (11 individuals) in the hibernaculum where it was detected. The changes in abundance we detected may reflect range expansions of some species (e. g., tri-colored bat) or changes in qualities of hibemacula or other aspects of habitats, but underlying mechanisms are unknown. Analizamos la variacin temporal en abundancia de murcilagos en invernaderos por medio de registros de largo plazo (1965-2004) en cavernas de yeso de las Red Hills de Kansas y Oklahoma, una regin que se encuentra en los lmites de las distribuciones geogrficas de cuatro especies de murcilagos. Se us el anlisis de correlacin no paramtrica para evaluar la variacin en abundancia de cinco especies entre 12 invernaderos. El murcilago orejas de mula (Corynorhinus townsendii) no mostr cambios significativos en abundancia en la mayora de sus invernaderos, pero exhibi un aumento y una reduccin en abundancia en dos invernaderos. El murcilago de la cueva (Myotis velifer) mostr aumento en algunos invernaderos (27% de los invernaderos,  = 3) y en un sitio una reduccin (9% de los invernaderos,  = 1). El murcilago Penmyotis subflavus exhibi un aumento en abundancia en 60% (n = 6) en sus invernaderos. El murcilago plido (Antrozouspallidus) y el gran murcilago marrn (Eptesicus fuscus) no exhibieron cambios significativos con respecto al tamao poblacional en ningn invernadero, aunque el murcilago plido apareci en baja frecuencia y en bajos nmeros (11 individuos) en el invernadero donde fue detectado. Los cambios en abundancia que detectamos pueden reflejar expansiones en la distribucin geogrfica de algunas especies (por ejemplo, el murcilago P. subflavus) o cambios en la calidad de invernadero u otros aspectos de habitat, pero se desconocen los mecanismos subyacentes.
40801032|We analyzed fecal pellets from 59 Nyctinomops femorosaccus and 54 Tadarida brasiliensis to assess dietary overlap in an area of sympatry. Lepidoptera, Hemiptera, and Coleptera were the most abundant orders of insects. Niche-breadth indices were narrow overall and highest in June for both species. Indices of overlap indicated nearly complete overlap in use of resources. There does not appear to be resource partitioning of diet at the taxonomic level examined in these species during summer when sources of food are expected to be more abundant. There was a dietary shift from predominantly Lepidoptera to Hemiptera in March for N. femorosaccus, but not for T. brasiliensis. Resources other than food may impose a greater limitation on size of these populations. Analizamos la materia fecal de 59 individuos de Nyctinomops femorosaccus y 54individuos de Tadarida brasiliensis para determinar el traslapo de dieta en una rea de simpatra. Las rdenes de insectos ms comnmente encontradas fueron Lepidoptera, Hemptera, y Coleptera. La amplitud de los nichos fue pequea en general y fue ms grande en el mes de junio para ambas especies. Los ndices de traslapo indicaron un compartimiento casi completo del uso de los recursos. No parece haber recursos divididos de la dieta al nivel examinado en estas especies durante los meses de verano cuando la fuente de alimentos debe ser ms abundante. Hubo un cambio de la dieta predominantemente de Lepidptera a Hemptera en el mes de marzo para N. femorosaccus pero no para T. brasiliensis. Recursos distintos a los alimentos pueden ser ms importantes limitando el tamao de estas poblaciones.
40801033|An updated list of the bats of northwestern Durango, based on recent collections and literature records, is presented. A total of 43 species were recorded, five for the first time in the state (Balantiopteryx plicata, Artibeus hirsutus, Artibeus intermedius, Chiroderma salvini, and Myotis carien).Comparisons with other intensively sampled localities across Mexico indicate that species richness in the Sierra Madre Occidental of northwestern Durango is comparable to that of Mexican rainforests, resulting from high diversity of habitats in relatively small areas. Species composition in this region is dominated by vespertilionid and molossid bats, whereas phyllostomids dominate tropical rainforests; thus, species assemblages are considerably different. Moreover, anthropogenic pressure is comparatively lower than in most of the humid tropics of Mexico. Nonetheless, no protected area exists that includes the complete spectrum of habitats of the region. An immediate conservation strategy is urgently needed if this largely unknown region of Mexico is to be preserved. Se presenta una lista actualizada de 43 especies de murcilagos del noroeste del estado de Durango basada en el examen de ejemplares de coleccin reciente y registros bibliogrficos. Cinco especies se registraron por primera vez en el estado (Balantiopteryx plicata, Artibeus hirsutus, Artibeus intermedius, Chiroderma salvini, y Myotis carien) . La comparacin de esta fauna con las de otras regiones de Mxico muestreadas intensivamente indica que la riqueza de especies de la Sierra Madre Occidental del noroeste de Durango es comparable a la de las selvas altas hmedas mexicanas, resultado de tener una gran diversidad de hbitats en reas relativamente pequeas. Molossidae y Vespertilionidae son las familias dominantes en esta regin, en tanto que Phyllostomidae domina los bosques tropicales hmedos. Entonces, los ensamblajes de especies son muy distintos. Por otro lado, las presiones antropognicas son comparativamente ms bajas que en la mayora de las reas tropicales hmedas de Mxico. A pesar de eso, no existe un rea protegida que cubra el espectro completo de habitats de la regin. Se requiere urgentemente una estrategia de proteccin inmediata para conservar esta regin poco conocida de Mxico.
40801034|We used standard mark-recapture techniques to investigate ecological characteristics of populations of Peromyscus leucopus (white-footed deermice) inhabiting two locations within a site contaminated by heavy metals, Tar Creek Superfund Site, and reference sites, Lake Carl Blackwell and Oologah Wildlife Management Area, in northeastern Oklahoma. Basic demographic parameters such as size of population, rate of survival, rate of recapture, mean minimum longevity, number of reproductively active females, reproductive success, and incidence of infestation by botflies (Cuterebra fontinella) were not significantly different between contaminated and reference sites. However, adult, non-reproductive P. leucopus inhabiting contaminated sites had, on average, a larger body mass than those from reference sites. Other indicators of overall individual health, dental condition and prevalence of botfly infestations were significantly different among populations. Instances of extensive mottling of the upper and lower incisors, a reliable indicator of exposure to contamination by heavy metals, were only noted in individuals inhabiting contaminated sites. Unfortunately, no direct link between contamination and alterations to some population parameters could be established. Usamos tcnicas estndares de marcaje-recaptura para investigar las caractersticas ecolgicas de Peromyscus leucopus (ratn de patas blancas) en poblaciones que residen en dos localidades de un sitio contaminado por metales pesados, Tar Creek Superfund Site, y los sitios de referencia, Lake Carl Blackwell y Oologah Wildlife Management Area, en el noreste de Oklahoma. Los parmetros bsicos de demografa como tamao poblacional, tasa de sobrevivencia, tasa de recaptura, media minima de longevidad, nmero de hembras reproductivamente activas, xito reproductivo, e infestacin por trsalo de roedores (Cuterebra fontinella) no fueron significantemente diferentes entre los sitios contaminados y los de referencia. Sin embargo, los adultos P. leucopus no reproductivos que habitan en los sitios contaminados tuvieron, en promedio, una masa corporal mayor comparada con los sitios de referencia. Otros indicadores totales de salud individual, condicin dental y prevalncia de infestaciones por trsalo de roedores fueron significantemente diferentes entre las poblaciones. Casos en que se observ un extenso moteado en los incisivos superiores e inferiores, un indicador confiable por exposicin a metales pesados, fueron observados solamente en individuos que habitan en los sitios contaminados. Desafortunadamente, no se pudo establecer una relacin directa entre los sitios contaminados y las alteraciones a algunos parmetros poblacionales.
40801035|I studied ecological relationships of 10 bobcats {Lynx rufus; 4 males, 6 females) from an unexploited population in the Chihuahuan Desert of southern New Mexico during 2004-2008. Using the 95% adaptive-kernel method, I estimated annual size of home ranges to be 12,887 ha for males and 2,847 ha for females. Average activity during nighttime and daytime was 80.6 and 18.8%, respectively.Desert cottontails {Sylvilagus auduboni) were the most common prey in scats. Annual rate of survival was 0.875 for males and 0.917 for females. Average weight of males and females was 12.6 and 9.0 kg, respectively. Two bobcats tested positive for toxoplasmosis. Compared to other areas, bobcats in my study area were heavier, there was more contrast between daytime and nighttime levels of activity, and males had larger home ranges. Rate of survival was similar to other unexploited populations. Estudi las relaciones ecologias de 10 gatos monts (Lynx rufus; cuatro machos, seis hembras) de una poblacin no explotada en el desierto Chihuahua del sur de Nuevo Mexico durante 2004-2008. Los rangos de hogar anuales fueron 12,887 ha para machos y 2,847 ha para hembras, usando el mtodo de  adaptive kernel  al 95%. Los niveles medios de actividad durante la noche y el da fueron 80.6 y 18.8%, respectivamente. El conejo Sylvilagus audubonii fue la especie de presa ms comn encontrada en las heces. La tasa de supervivencia anual fue 0.875 para machos y 0.917 para hembras. El peso medio de machos y hembras fue 12.6 y 9.0 kg, respectivamente. Dos gatos monts resultaron positivos por toxoplasmosis. Comparados con los de otras reas, los gatos monts de este estudio fueron ms pesados, hubo ms contraste entre los niveles de actividad de la noche y del da, y los machos tuvieron rangos de hogar ms grandes. La tasa de supervivencia fue semejante a la de otras poblaciones no explotadas.
40801036|During 2006-2007, we studied movements of native bluehead suckers (Catostomus discobolus) and flannelmouth suckers (C. latipinnis), and non-native white suckers (C. commersonii) and longnose suckers (C. catostomus) in the Big Sandy River, Wyoming. Radiotransmitters were surgically implanted into 20-22 fish of each species in September and October 2006. Movements of all four species in autumn and winter were short with most fish remaining 2 km from locations where they were captured initially. Bluehead suckers and flannelmouth suckers began movements downstream in mid-to-late April and returned upstream to locations 2 km from their original locations by early summer. White suckers did not make substantial movements during spring, whereas longnose suckers made movements upstream during mid-June and returned downstream by early July. During their estimated spawning periods, longnose suckers used upstream portions, bluehead suckers and white suckers used middle portions, and flannelmouth suckers used downstream portions of the study area. Durante 2006-2007, estudiamos los traslados de dos especies de matalotes nativos, matalotes de cabeza azul (Catostomus discobolus) y matalotes boca de franela (C. latipinnis), y dos especies no nativas, matalotes blancos (C. commersonii) y matalotes (C. catostomus) en el ro Big Sandy, en Wyoming. Implantamos quirrgicamente radiotransmisores en 20-22 peces de cada especie en septiembre y octubre del 2006. Los traslados de las cuatro especies durante otoo e invierno fueron cortos, la mayora de los peces se mantuvo  2 km del sitio de captura inicial. Los matalotes cabeza azul y los boca de franela empezaron a trasladarse ro abajo de mediados a finales de abril, y regresaron a sitios  2 km de sus sitios originales temprano en el verano. Los matalotes blancos no hicieron traslados sustanciales durante la primavera, mientras que los matalotes catostomus se trasladaron ro arriba a mediados de junio para regresar ro abajo hacia julio temprano. Durante la poca estimada del desove, los matalotes C. catostomus usaron las secciones ro arriba, los matalotes blancos y los de cabeza azul usaron las secciones medias, y los matalotes boca de franela usaron las secciones ro abajo del sitio de estudio.
40801037|During June-September 2007, we searched bird nests for evidence of parasitism by brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater) and we tested response of the avian community to taxidermy mounts of a brown-headed cowbird in a tropical deciduous forest in the Chamela-Cuixmala Biosphere Reserve in western Mexico. Of 46 nests found (black-capped gnatcatcher Polioptila nigriceps, 2; red-breasted chat Oranatellus venustus, 1; blue bunting Cyanocompsa parellina, 1; orange-breasted bunting Passerina leclancherii, 1; rufous-backed thrush Turdus rufopalliatus, 1; yellow-green vreo Vreo flavoviridis, 39), only one was parasitized (nest of a black-capped gnatcatcher). Experimental responses to taxidermy mounts suggested that yellow-green vireos may have had previous contact with cowbirds. We conclude that in the Chamela-Cuixmala Biosphere Reserve, parasitism by brown-headed and bronzed cowbirds (Molothrus aeneus) remains low, or even absent for some species, as on the yellow-green vireo, but this situation could change in the near future because significant developments for the tourism industry are planned adjacent to the reserve; that could create new habitat and sources of food for cowbirds. De junio-septiembre del 2007, realizamos una bsqueda de nidos parasitados por Molothrus ater y realizamos un experimento para evaluar la respuesta de la comunidad de aves a un montaje taxidrmico de M. ater en un bosque tropical caducifolio en la Reserva de la Biosfera de Chamela-Cuixmala en el oeste de Mxico. De 46 nidos encontrados (Polioptila nigriceps, 2; Granatellus venustus, 1; Cyanocompsa parellina, 1; Passerina leclancherii, 1; Turdus rufopalliatus, 1; Vireo flavoviridis, 39), slo uno (un nido de P. nigriceps) estaba parasitado. La respuesta experimental al montaje de M. ater por V. flavoviridis sugiere que esta especie quizs ha tenido contactos previos con el parsito. Concluimos que en la Reserva de la Biosfera de Chamela-Cuixmala, el parasitismo por M. ater es bajo o aun ausente para algunas especies como el V. flavoviridis. Sin embargo esta situacin puede cambiar drsticamente en el futuro cercano debido a los planes de desarrollos tursticos significantes en la zona adyacente a la reserva. Eso podra crear un nuevo habitat y fuentes de alimentacin para M. ater.
40801038|Geographic range of the jaguar (Panthera onca) in Mexico has decreased due to illegal hunting, loss of prey, and loss of habitat. No survey of jaguars has been conducted in San Luis Potos since 1953, despite potentially suitable habitat in the Sierra Madre Oriental. During May 2006-March 2008, we conducted 22 field surveys, including interviews of local officials, residents, landowners, and hunters from 42 communities, and searched for tracks near each location where jaguars were reported in the Huasteca Region of the Sierra Madre Oriental of San Luis Potos. We obtained 34 records of jaguars, 28 considered as recent records comprising 12 individuals and 6 historic records. Jaguars were recorded in oak forest (31.1% of records), tropical deciduous forest (28.1%), cloud forest (12.5%), tropical forest (12.5%), piedmont scrub (9.4%), pine-oak forest (3.1%), and along a border between a sugar cane plantation and tropical forest (3.1%). Locations were 150-2,400 m in elevation. We documented presence of diverse prey and four other species of felids. We generated a distribution map for jaguars and estimated loss of forests for 1970-2000. Geographical distribution of jaguars in San Luis Potos extends north (2230' N) to the municipality of El Naranjo, south (2124'N) to the municipality of Xilitla, east (9854'W) to the municipality of Ciudad Valles, and west (9934'W) to the municipality of Rayn. The distribution comprises the subprovince of the Gran Sierra Plegada, Carso Huasteco, and Sierra del Abra Tanchipa of the Sierra Madre Oriental. Given the number of records and quality of remaining habitat, the Sierra Madre Oriental in San Luis Potos should be considered as a high priority for long-term conservation of jaguars in Mexico. La distribucin geogrfica del jaguar (Panthera onca) en Mxico ha disminuido debido a la cacera furtiva, la disminucin de sus presas y la prdida de hbitat. En el estado de San Luis Potos no se han realizado muestreos recientes desde el 1953, a pesar de que existe hbitat adecuado en la sierra Madre Oriental. Durante mayo 2006-marzo 2008, realizamos 22 salidas al campo, incluyendo entrevistas con oficiales, residentes, dueos de terrenos y cazadores locales en 42 comunidades, y buscamos huellas cerca de cada lugar donde se haban reportado de la zona Huasteca de San Luis Potos. Obtuvimos 34 registros de jaguar, 28 considerados actuales y abarcando de > 12 individuos y 6 histricos. Los registros de jaguares se encontraron asociados a bosque de encino (31.3%), selva baja caducifolia (28.1%), bosque mesfilo de montaa (12.5%), selva mediana (12.5%), matorral submontano (9.4%), bosque de pino-encino (3.1%), y borde de caa de azcar con selva mediana (3.1%). Los registros se ubicaron desde los 150-2,400 msnm. Se documentaron la presencia de una base de presas diversas y la existencia de otras cuatro especies de felinos. Se realiz un mapa de distribucin del jaguar y se estim el habitat perdido de 1970 al 2000. La distribucin geogrfica del jaguar en San Luis Potos est comprendida al norte (2230') en el municipio de El Naranjo, al sur en el municipio de Xilitla, al este (9854') en el municipio de Ciudad Valles y al oeste (9934;) en el municipio de Rayn. Su distribucin comprende la sierra Madre Oriental dentro de la subprovincia de la Gran Sierra Plegada, Carso Huasteco y sierra del Abra Tanchipa. Dado el nmero de registros obtenidos y la calidad de hbitat restante, la sierra Madre Oriental dentro de San Luis Potos debera ser considerada como sitio prioritario para la conservacin del jaguar a largo plazo.
40801039|The general paradigm associated with overland movements of semi-aquatic turtles between aquatic habitats predicts that males move more frequently and for greater distances than females and juveniles, and that larger individuals move more frequently than smaller individuals. We used capture-mark-recapture techniques to examine interpond movement patterns of western painted turtles (Chrysemys piet) among a complex of eight ponds in east-central Kansas in 2007. We assessed the broad applicability of predictions of the general paradigm by testing the following hypotheses: 1) males make interpond movements more frequently than females, 2) larger adult-sized individuals make interpond movements more frequently than juveniles, 3) propensity for pond-to-pond movement varies as a function of size within categories (i. e., males, females, and juveniles), and 4) mean minimum distance traveled between ponds is greatest for males. The proportion of males that moved between ponds was not significantly different from that of females, and we did not observe a significant difference in proportion of adults and juveniles categorized as movers. Mean length of plastron of individuals classified as movers and non-movers was not significantly different within either females or juveniles. Males categorized as non-movers were significantly larger than those that made interpond movements. Mean minimum distance traveled between ponds was not significantly different among males, females, and juveniles. Thus, our results were not consistent with any of the predictions of the general paradigm. Costs and benefits associated with overland movements of turtles are likely to vary both spatially and temporally. We suggest that as cost-benefit ratios vary, so should predictions about the propensity for interpond movements among turtles of different sexes, sizes, and ontogenetic stages. El paradigma general asociado a traslados terrestres de tortugas semi-acuticas entre hbitats acuticos pronostica que los machos se trasladan ms frecuentemente y a distancias mayores que las hembras y juveniles, y que individuos ms grandes se trasladan ms frecuentemente que individuos ms pequeos. Usamos tcnicas de captura y recaptura con el fin de examinar patrones de traslados entre lagunas de tortugas pintadas (Chrysemys picta) dentro de un complejo de ocho lagunas al este y centro de Kansas en 2007. Evaluamos la aplicacin a grandes rasgos de predicciones del paradigma general probando las siguientes hiptesis: 1) los machos realizan traslados entre lagunas ms frecuentemente que las hembras, 2) los adultos ms grandes realizan traslados entre lagunas ms frecuentemente que los juveniles, 3) la propensin a mudarse entre lagunas vara como una funcin del tamao corporal dentro de categoras (por ejemplo, machos, hembras y juveniles), y 4) el promedio de distancia de traslados entre lagunas es mayor para los machos. La proporcin de machos que se mudaron entre lagunas no fue significativamente diferente a la de las hembras, y no observamos una diferencia significativa en la proporcin de adultos y juveniles que se mudaron. El promedio de longitud del plastrn de los individuos que se mudaron y los que no se mudaron no fue significativamente diferente ni entre las hembras ni entre los juveniles. Los machos que no se mudaron fueron significativamente ms grandes que los que se trasladaron a otra laguna. El promedio de distancia mnima de traslado entre lagunas no fue significativamente diferente entre machos, hembras y juveniles. Entonces, nuestros resultados no concordaron con ninguna de las predicciones del paradigma general. Los costos y los beneficios asociados con los traslados terrestres de tortugas probablemente varan en espacio y tiempo.Sugerimos que como las proporciones de beneficio a costo varan, tambin las predicciones deberan variar con respecto a la propensin de traslado entre lagunas en tortugas de diferente sexo, tamao y estadio ontogentico.
40801040|We analyzed data from studies of cougars (Puma concolor) completed during 1982-1997 in Big Bend, Carlsbad Caverns, and Guadalupe Mountains national parks, and Big Bend Ranch State Park. We estimated annual and seasonal (hunting and non-hunting periods) rates of survival and rates of cause-specific mortality for 31 males and 29 females. In the three studies, annual rates of survival for females were higher than those for males. Seasonal rates of survival were variable between sexes and among studies; however, pooling males and females revealed that rates of survival at Carlsbad Caverns and Guadalupe Mountains national parks and Big Bend Ranch State Park were lower during hunting periods (1 September-31 March) compared to non-hunting periods (1 April-31 August). However, pooled rates of survival for males and females at Big Bend National Park were equal during hunting and non-hunting periods. Trapping was the greatest annual source of cause-specific mortality in all study areas. Shooting and unknown sources were the next greatest sources of mortality. Mortalities from intraspecific strife and natural causes were documented only in Big Bend National Park. Rates of survival for cougars in Texas and the Guadalupe Mountains of New Mexico are among the lowest in the United States. Low rate of survival should be considered when developing management plans; however, we caution against extrapolating results from limited study areas to the entire region. Usamos datos de estudios del puma (Puma concolor) realizados en los parques nacionales Big Bend, Carlsbad Caverns y Guadalupe Mountains, y en el parque estatal Big Bend Ranch entre 1982-1997. Calculamos tasas de supervivencia anuales y temporales (las temporadas de casar y no casar) y tasas de mortandad por causas especficas para 31 machos y 29 hembras. En los tres estudios, las tasas anuales de supervivencia de las hembras fueron ms altas que las de los machos. Las tasas de supervivencia temporales fueron variables entre los sexos y los estudios, aunque al agregar machos y hembras las tasas de supervivencia en los parques nacionales de Carlsbad Caverns y Guadalupe Mountains y en el parque estatal Big Bend Ranch fueron ms bajas durante la temporada cinegtica (1 septiembre-31 marzo) que en la temporada de veda (1 abril-31 agosto). Sin embargo, tasas de supervivencia de los machos y hembras agregados en el Parque Nacional Big Bend fueron iguales durante la temporada cinegtica y la temporada de veda. El trampeo gener el mayor nmero en muertes por causas especficas en todas las reas. La mortandad por armas y causas desconocidas quedaron en segundo trmino. La mortandad por peleas interespecficas y causas naturales se documentaron nicamente en el Parque Nacional Big Bend. Las tasas de supervivencia del puma en Texas y en las montaas Guadalupe de Nuevo Mxico son de las ms bajas en los Estados Unidos. Tasas bajas de supervivencia se deben tomar en cuenta en el desarrollo de acciones de manejo, sin embargo recomendamos cautela en la extrapolacin de resultados de reas limitadas de estudio a toda la regin.
40801041|We report on Aspidoscelis sexlineata (six-lined racerunner) from the four known sites of occurrence in Mexico, one being a southward range extension of 74.3 km for the species. These sites are situated in the extreme eastern part of the municipality of Matamoros, Tamaulipas, and are nearest to records for the species in the United States for Brazos Island-South Padre Island, Cameron County, Texas. In both regions, A. sexlineata occurs a short distance from the seashore in habitats formed and influenced by perturbations of hurricanes and the maritime climate of the Gulf of Mexico (e.g., sand dunes devoid of congeners with openings in halophytic vegetation). Samples of A. sexlineata from Tamaulipas are statistically similar to those from South Padre Island in two meristic characters, one ratio, and snoutvent length, but significantly different in one meristic character and one ratio involving color pattern. Because similarities among specimens from the plains of southern Texas, South Padre Island, and Tamaulipas are strongly indicated, it is reasonable to allocate the three groups to A. sexlineata stephensae, Texas yellow-headed racerunner. Se presenta un reporte sobre Aspidoscelis sexlineata (huico de seis lneas) de los cuatro sitios en Mxico donde se conoce su presencia, uno de los cuales representa una extensin de 74.3 km hacia el sur para la distribucin de la especie. Estos sitios se localizan en la porcin extremo este del municipio de Matamoros, Tamaulipas, y los registros ms cercanos para la especie son los de Brazos Island y South Padre Island, condado de Cameron, Texas, Estados Unidos. En ambas regiones, A. sexlineata se encuentra a corta distancia de la costa del mar en habitats que han sido formados por las perturbaciones de los huracanes y el clima martimo del Golfo de Mxico y que se encuentran bajo su influencia (por ejemplo, en huecos de vegetacin halfila en dunas de arena sin congneres). Muestras de A. sexlineata de Tamaulipas son estadsticamente similares a las de South Padre Island en dos caracteres mersticos, una proporcin, y la longitud hocico-cloaca, pero significativamente diferentes en un carcter merstico y una proporcin que involucra el patrn de coloracin. Debido a la marcada similitud entre las muestras de las planicies del sur de Texas, South Padre Island y Tamaulipas, es razonable asignar los tres grupos a A. sexlineata stephensae, el huico tejano de cabeza amarilla.
40801042|From the 259 species of legumes recorded, the distribution of 242 wild species of legumes over 224 locations within 12 plant communities was examined in northeastern Mexico. Objectives were: (1) to determine diversity of legumes in the mountains and plains of northeastern Mexico and (2) to elucidate distributional patterns of legumes in this region. The subfamily Papilionoideae had the largest number of wild genera (47) and species (167), followed by Mimosoideae (13 and 44) and Caesalpinioideae (10 and 31). Genera with the largest number of native species were Dalea (28), Desmodium (16), Astragalus (13), Senna (13), Acacia (11), Phaseolus (10), Crotalaria (9), and Lupinus (8). Of wild legumes, 24 genera had 3 species each and 21 species were endemic to this area; most were Lupinus (5 species), Astragalus (4), and Dalea (4). Almost all of the 21 endemic species were > 1,500 m in elevation in oak-pine forests (7), oak forests (5), and coniferous forests (5). Only one endemic species occurred < 1,400 m in elevation. Of the endemic species, 90.5% were in the subfamily Papilionoideae. There were 17 cultivated legumes, most of them in Caesalpinioideae. Similarity and dissimilarity matrixes using the Srensen index were assessed using minimum-variance clustering. Using diversity of legumes, three assemblages of plant communities were recognized. Oak, oak-pine, mesic-conifer, and cool-temperate coniferous forests harbored the highest diversity of legumes, while rosetophyllous and xeric scrublands and halophytic communities contained the lowest diversity. De las 259 especies de leguminosas registradas, se estudi la distribucin de 242 especies de leguminosas silvestres en 224 localidades y 12 comunidades de plantas en el noreste de Mxico. Los objetivos fueron: (1) conocer la diversidad de leguminosas en montaas y planicies del noreste de Mxico y (2) elucidar patrones de distribucin de las leguminosas de esta regin. La subfamilia Papilionoideae fue la que posey mayor cantidad de gneros as como de especies silvestres (47 y 167 respectivamente), seguida por las Mimosoideae (13 y 44) y Caesalpinioideae (10 y 31). Los gneros con el mayor nmero de especies nativas fueron Dalea (28), Desmodium (16), Astragalus (13), Senna (13), Acacia (11), Phaseolus (10), Crotalaria (9) y Lupinus (8). En cuanto a especies silvestres, veinticuatro gneros poseyeron 3 especies y se registraron 21 especies endmicas para esta rea; la mayora fueron Lupinus (5 especies), Astragalus (4) y Dalea (4). Casi todas las 21 especies endmicas se distribuyeron a > 1,500 m en bosque de encino-pino (7), bosque de encino (5) y bosque de coniferas (5). Slo una especie endmica se encontr < 1,400 m. El 90.5% de las especies endmicas perteneci a la subfamilia Papilionoideae. Se registraron 17 especies de leguminosas cultivadas, la mayora de ellas pertenecientes a las Caesalpinioideae. Se utilizaron matrices de similitud-disimilitud mediante el coeficiente de Srensen y la tcnica de varianza mnima para clasificar las comunidades vegetales. Se reconocieron tres grupos de comunidades vegetales con respecto a la diversidad de leguminosas. Los bosques de encino, encino-pino, conferas msicas y conferas fras albergaron la mayor diversidad de leguminosas, mientras que los matorrales rosetfilos y xricos y las comunidades halfitas poseyeron la menor diversidad.
40801043|In the understory of many Juniperus woodlands, herbaceous cover and biomass are reduced or eliminated compared to interstitial grasslands. However, there are some exceptions. Carex planostachys (cedar sedge) is a widespread herbaceous species associated with J. ashei and occurs in the understory of these woodlands in central Texas. The purpose of this paper was to compare cover and biomass of herbaceous vegetation along a gradient from below the canopy of J. ashei into an associated intercanopy patch or grassland. Levels of light are reduced below the canopy, whereas litter and moisture in the soil are higher. Cover and biomass of C. planostachys were higher below the J. ashei canopy and canopy edge. Total cover and biomass of grasses were higher in the intercanopy at elevated levels of light, reduced litter, and lower soil moisture. Spatial distribution of C. planostachys below the canopy suggests that this species is tolerant of shade and may require a woodland canopy for growth and development. En el sotobosque de muchos bosques de Juniperus, la cubierta y biomasa herbcea son reducidas o eliminadas, en comparacin con praderas intersticiales. Sin embargo, hay algunas excepciones. Carex planostachys es una especie herbcea ampliamente difundida asociada con los bosques de J. ashei y se encuentra en el sotobosque de estos bosques en Texas central. El propsito de esta investigacin fue de comparar la cubierta y biomasa de la vegetacin herbcea a lo largo de un transecto bajo el dosel de J. ashei hasta un parche abierto entre los rboles o puro pastizal. Los niveles de luz son reducidos debajo del dosel mientras que la hojarasca y la humedad del suelo son ms altas. La cubierta y la biomasa de C. planostachys fueron ms altas debajo del dosel de J. ashei y en el borde del dosel. La cubierta y biomasa total de pastos fueron ms altas en el rea entre rboles, donde hay niveles de luz elevados, menos hojarasca y menos humedad del suelo. La distribucin espacial de C. planostachys debajo del dosel sugiere que esta especie es tolerante a la sombra y puede requerir un dosel boscoso para su crecimiento y desarrollo.
40801044|Velvet ants (Hymenoptera: Mutillidae) are a conspicuous component of the fauna of Nearctic deserts, but little is known about their natural history. We observed an aggregation of female velvet ants on the dune-restricted plant Croton californicus'. mohavensis (Euphorbiaceae). We collected 44 female velvet ants on or directly beneath a group of male and female plants during 2 nights. Some individuals were on flowers drinking nectar. The discovery of nocturnal velvet ants onC. californicus marks the first record of nectaring in nocturnal female velvet ants. Las hormigas aterciopeladas (Hymenoptera: Mutilidae) son un componente conspicuo de la fauna de los desiertos Nerticos, pero su historia natural es poco conocida. Observamos una agregacin de hembras de hormigas aterciopeladas en Croton californicus var. mohavensis (Euphorbiaceae), una planta de slo dunas de arena. Colectamos 44 hembras de hormigas aterciopeladas sobre o directamente debajo de un grupo de plantas machos y hembras durante 2 noches. Algunos individuos estuvieron en las flores consumiendo nctar. El descubrimiento de avispas aterciopeladas en C. califomicus en la noche constituye el primer registro de hembras nocturnas de hormigas aterciopeladas consumiendo nctar.
40801045|Intraspecific variation in blackbrush (Coleogyne ramosissima) seed imbibition was investigated using seeds collected at elevations of 1,100 and 1,700 m in the Spring Mountains, Clark County, Nevada. Under experimental conditions in the laboratory, seeds of C. ramosissima collected from a high-elevation site imbibed more water than seeds collected from a low-elevation site. Amount of water in seeds at full imbibition was not affected by mode of wetting and age of seed. Thickness of testa, a possible source of regulation of imbibition, also did not differ between collection sites. These results suggest that imbibition potential of seeds of C. ramosissima may differ as a function of elevation, a trait with potential adaptive importance for this dominant aridland shrub. La variacin intraespecfica en la imbibicin por la semilla del arbusto Coleogyne ramosissima fue investigada usando semillas colectadas en alturas de 1,100 y 1,700 m en las montaas Spring, condado de Clark, en Nevada, USA. Bajo condiciones experimentales en el laboratorio, las semillas de C. ramosissima colectadas de una localidad alta se empap con agua significativamente ms que las de una localidad baja. La cantidad de agua en la semilla en estado de imbibicin total no fue afectada por el modo de mojarla ni la edad de ella. La grosura de la cascara, una posible causa de la regulacin de la imbibicin, tampoco difiri significativamente entre sitios de coleccin. Estos resultados sugieren que la capacidad de imbibicin de la semilla de C. ramosissima puede diferir como una funcin de altura, una caracterstica con una posible importancia adaptativa para este arbusto dominante de tierras ridas.
40801046|Two photographs of the ocelot (Leopardus pardalis) were obtained on Sierra Fra, Aguascalientes, Mexico. These records extend the known geographic range of the species ca. 270 km east of Nayarit and 300 km northwest of Guanajuato. Dos fotografas de ocelotes (Leopardus pardalis) fueron obtenidas en Sierra Fra, Aguascalientes, Mxico. Estos registros amplan la distribucin geogrfica conocida de la especie alrededor de 270 km al este de Nayarit y 300 km al noroeste de Guanajuato.
40801047|The Bayou Bodcau crayfish, Bouchardina robisoni, is a rare endemic decapod that is considered critically imperiled (SI) in Arkansas by The Nature Conservancy. Few collections of this species have been made since 1977, with specimens previously known only from four counties of western and southwestern Arkansas. Herein, we provide two new distributional records in addition to documenting all known specimens and collection sites. We suggest updating the conservation status to threatened. El cangrejo, Bouchardina robisoni, es un decpodo endmico y raro que se considera crticamente en peligro (S1) en Arkansas por la Nature Conservancy. Pocas colecciones de esta especie se han realizado desde 1977, con especmenes previamente conocidos slo de cuatro condados del oeste y suroeste de Arkansas. Aqu, ofrecemos dos nuevos registros de distribucin, adems de documentar todos los ejemplares conocidos y los sitios de recoleccin. Sugerimos actualizar el estado de conservacin a amenazado.
40801048|We report first records of the Guatemalan beaded lizard (Heloderma horridum charlesbogerti) from the Pacific versant of Guatemala. The presence of this lizard in the region further substantiates the notion that this species gained access into the region through a Pacific corridor. Reportamos los primeros registros del escorpin guatemalteco (Heloderma horridum charlesbogerti) en la vertiente del Pacfico de Guatemala. La presencia de esta lagartija en el rea corrobora la idea de que tuvo acceso a travs de un corredor del Pacfico.
40801049|During a survey of small mammals in the municipality of Santa Maria Chimalapa in eastern Oaxaca, Mexico, we obtained the first record of Thomas' shaggy bat (Centronycteris centralis, Emballonuridae) and the funnel-eared bat (Natalus lanatus, Natalidae), as well as the second record of the false vampire bat (Vampyrum spectrum, Phyllostomidae) for the state. With these new records, the list of bats for Oaxaca increased to 86 species, confirming Oaxaca as the Mexican state with the greatest number of species of terrestrial mammals and, in particular, the Chimalapas region as one of the most diverse regions in the country. Durante un inventario de mamferos pequeos en el municipio de Santa Mara Chimalapa al oriente de Oaxaca, Mxico, obtuvimos el primer registro de los murcilagos Centronycteris centralis (Emballonuridae) y Natalus lanatus (Natalidae), as como el segundo registro para Vampyrum spectrum (Phyllostomidae). Con estos nuevos registros, la lista de murcilagos de Oaxaca se increment a 86 especies, confirmando a Oaxaca como el estado mexicano con el mayor nmero de especies de mamferos terrestres y, en particular, a la zona de Los Chimalapas como una de las ms diversas regiones en el pas.
40801050|The objective of this study was to investigate effectiveness of a common drift-fence trap, the single-funnel trap, in comparison with a new one-way double-funnel design. We expected this new design to decrease escapes over standard trapping techniques and, therefore, increase efficiency of sampling using drift fences. Five 15-m, linear, drift-fence arrays with three 15-m, Y-shaped arrays were placed at two field sites in central Texas and a single 15-m, linear array was placed at a field site at Seabrook Island, South Carolina. Each array contained an equal number of the single-funnel and double-funnel traps. One-way double-funnel traps caught and retained significantly more reptiles, total herpetofauna, and total vertebrates than did single-funnel traps. Our results indicated that doublefunnel traps offer an improved trapping technique when compared with the typical single-funnel trap. El objetivo de este estudio fue investigar la eficacia de trampas comunes de un solo embudo usadas con cercas de desvo en comparacin con una trampa de diseo nuevo de doble embudo de una sola va. Se esperaba que con este nuevo diseo se obtuviera una reduccin de escapes en comparacin con los mtodos estndares de captura, y por ende, incrementar la eficiencia al muestrear con cercas de desvo. Un grupo de cinco complejos de cercas de desvo lineales de 15 m ms un grupo de tres complejos de cercas de desvo en forma Y con brazos de 15 m fueron localizados en dos sitios separados en el centro de Texas. Una sola cerca de desvo lineal de 15 m fue puesta en un sitio de campo en Seabrook Island, South Carolina. Cada complejo tuvo un nmero igual de trampas de un solo embudo y de doble embudo. Las trampas de doble embudo y de una sola va capturaron y retuvieron significativamente ms reptiles, herpetofauna en total y vertebrados en total que las trampas de un solo embudo. Nuestros resultados indicaron que las trampas de doble embudo ofrecen un mtodo mejor de captura cuando se comparan con la trampa tpica de un solo embudo.
40801051|Tornados can influence forests by increasing openness of canopies and decreasing the frequency of large trees. These changes may indirectly influence the avian community; therefore, we monitored birds in a Cross Timbers community that had recently experienced an F3 tornado. We surveyed the avian community 6 times during summer of 2 years. We performed surveys along three transects in the impacted site, a nearby non-impacted site, and a grassland. Species richness and composition were significantly different among habitats, but these differences were not related primarily to damage by the tornado. A partial canonical-correspondence analysis suggested that differences among habitats were due to species segregating between habitats with trees (impacted and non-impacted forests) and those without trees (grassland). It appeared that the avian community did not respond strongly to impact of the tornado. We suggest that avian communities in relatively open and patchy forests, such as the Cross Timbers, will not respond as strongly to localized disturbance from wind as will communities in more mesic, closed-canopy forests. Open woodlands lack adequate habitat for species that occupy interiors of forests; these species are expected to segregate the strongest between impacted and non-impacted sites. Los tornados pueden modificar bosques aumentando la abertura del dosel y disminuyendo la frecuencia de rboles grandes. Estos cambios puedan influir indirectamente la comunidad de aves; en consecuencia, monitoreamos las aves en un bosque Cross Timbers donde recientemente haba pasado un tornado de intensidad F3. Muestreamos la comunidad de aves 6 veces durante los veranos de 2 aos. Realizamos las muestras a lo largo de tres transectos en el sitio impactado, en un sitio cercano noimpactado y en la pradera. El nmero de especies y la composicin fueron significativamente diferentes entre habitats, sin embargo, estas diferencias no estuvieron principalmente relacionadas al dao ocasionado por el tornado. Un anlisis parcial de correspondencia cannica sugiri que las diferencias entre habitats fueron debidas a segregacin de especies entre los habitats con rboles (bosques impactados y no-impactados) y los sin rboles (la pradera). Pareci que la comunidad de aves no respondi fuertemente al impacto del tornado. Proponemos que las comunidades de aves en un bosque relativamente abierto y con parches, como el Cross Timbers, no respondern tan fuertemente a los disturbios localizados del viento como las comunidades de aves en un bosque ms hmedo y con un dosel cerrado. A los bosques abiertos les falta el habitat adecuado para las especies del interior del bosque; se espera que estas especies segreguen ms intensamente entre sitios impactados y no impactados.
40801052|We assessed use of habitat by the semiaquatic lizard Norops aquaticus along the Rio Java at the Las Cruces Biological Station, Costa Rica. We surveyed the river for lizards and determined characteristics of their perches relative to edge of the water. Individuals preferentially positioned themselves near eddies. Demographic classes differed in height of perches above the river, with adult males using the highest perches. Males were most likely to perch directly above water. In addition, males and juveniles tended to be in exposed areas, whereas females selected cover. Behavior of N. aquaticus on land is dependent on characteristics of rivers. Evaluamos el uso de hbitat de la lagartija semiacutica Norops aquaticus a lo largo del rio Java en La Estacin Biolgica las Cruces, Costa Rica. Muestreamos el ro buscando lagartijas y determinamos las caractersticas de sus perchas con relacin a la orilla del ro. Los individuos se posicionaron preferiblemente cerca de remansos. Las clases demogrficas difirieron en la altura de la percha sobre el ro, con los machos adultos usando las perchas ms altas. Los machos eran ms propensos a posarse directamente sobre el agua. Adicionalmente, machos y juveniles tendieron a estar en reas expuestas, en cuanto las hembras prefirieron reas cubiertas. El comportamiento de N. aquaticus sobre tierra depende de las caractersticas del ro.
40985935|Populations of lesser prairie-chickens (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) have declined sharply across the range of the species, including southeastern New Mexico. Several possible causes for this decline have been suggested, including overgrazing by livestock. To test this hypothesis, vegetative composition of active and abandoned leks of lesser prairie-chickens and the pastures in which they were located was measured using the line-point sampling method. Vegetative composition of active leks and the pastures in which they were located was significantly different from those of abandoned leks and surrounding pastures in all 3 years of the study. Active leks and surrounding pastures had significantly more bluestem (Andropogon) and less dropseed (Sporobolus) than did abandoned leks and surrounding pastures. Abandoned leks were closer to honey mesquites (Prosopis glandulosa) > 60 cm in height than were active leks. Results are symptomatic of overgrazing, which is detrimental to populations of lesser prairie-chickens. Las poblaciones del gallo chico de las praderas (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) han disminuido bruscamente a travs de la distribucin geogrfica de la especie, incluyendo el sureste de Nuevo Mxico. Varias posibles causas de esta disminucin han sido sugeridas, incluyendo el sobrepastoreo del ganado. Para probar esta hiptesis, la composicin vegetal de reas comunales de despliegue (leks) activos y abandonados del gallo chico de las praderas y la de los pastizales cercados en donde se quedaron fue medida usando el mtodo de muestreo lnea-punto. La composicin vegetal de las reas comunales de despliegue activas y pastizales en donde fueron localizados fue significativamente diferente de la de las reas comunales de despliegue abandonadas y pastizales cercados durante los 3 aos del estudio. Las reas comunales de despliegue activas y pastizales cercados tuvieron significativamente ms pasto tallo azul (Andropogon) y menos zacate de arena (Sporobolus) que las reas comunales de despliegue abandonadas y pastizales cercados. Las reas comunales de despliegue abandonadas estuvieron ms cerca a mezquites de miel (Prosopis glandulosa) > 60 cm de altura que las reas comunales de despliegue activas. Los resultados son sintomticos de sobrepastoreo, que es perjudicial para las poblaciones del gallo chico de las praderas.
40985936|We modeled how variation in size of home ranges and annual movements of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in southern Texas altered ability to manage deer within various sizes of management units and discussed implications for spread of disease. The percentage of adult (3.5 years) males remaining on management units varied < 4% across three sites in southern Texas. The spatial extent of spread of disease by adult males would be less than movements associated with migration or dispersal. Based on size of home ranges and movements, > 98% of males would use management units of 1,000 km because their use of space would not result in use of adjoining management units. Migration of deer in northern latitudes resulted in 20% of the population using management units of 1,000 km, which potentially could expose large areas (> 25,000 km) to disease because a greater percentage of deer would use adjoining management units compared to deer in southern latitudes. Our results are useful in determining size and configuration of management units, which will improve formulation of management plans, analysis of data from harvests, and prediction and control of disease. Modelamos cmo la variacin en tamao del rango de hogar y movimientos anuales del venado cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus) en el sur de Texas alter la habilidad para manejar el venado dentro de varios tamaos de unidades de manejo y discutimos las implicaciones para la transmisin de enfermedades. El porcentaje de machos adultos (?3.5 aos) que permanecieron en unidades de manejo vari <4% a travs de tres sitios en el sur de Texas. El lmite espacial de transmisin de enfermedades por machos adultos sera menor que los movimientos asociados con migracin o dispersin. Basados en el tamao del rango de hogar y movimientos, >98% de los machos usaran unidades de manejo de 1,000 km porque su uso de espacio no resultara en uso de unidades de manejo adyacentes. La migracin de venados en latitudes norteas result en 20% de la poblacin usando unidades de manejo de 1,000 km, lo cual potencialmente podra exponer grandes reas (>25,000 km) a enfermedades debido a que un mayor porcentaje de venados usara unidades de manejo adyacentes comparados con venados en latitudes sureas. Nuestros resultados son tiles en la determinacin del tamao y configuracin de unidades de manejo, lo que mejorar la formulacin de planes de manejo, anlisis de datos de caza, y prediccin y control de enfermedades.
40985937|This research compared surveys of vegetation that were conducted in Big Bend National Park, Brewster County, Texas, during 1955-1960 and 1968-1969 with data collected in 2005 and 2006. Comparisons were based on percentages of cover and flora at five study sites. Results suggest some increases and decreases in certain types of vegetative cover since creation of the park, although no trend was consistent across elevations and years. Sites at lowest and highest elevations had significant increases in shrubs. Except for one, all sites had significant differences in total cover. Some species had changed in overall abundance. Lehmann lovegrass (Eragrostis lehmanniana) was becoming a dominant grass in foothills of the Chisos Mountains and surrounding Chihuahuan Desert. In contrast, leatherstem (Jatropha dioica), fragrant sumac (Rhus trilobata), tarbush (Flourensia cernua), four-wing saltbush (Atriplex canescens), desert hackberry (Celtis pallida), and Mexican mock vervain (Glandularia bipinnatifida) had disappeared from some, or all, locations where they were recorded previously. Esta investigacin compara inventarios de vegetacin que fueron realizados en el parque nacional Big Bend, condado de Brewster, Texas, durante 1955-1960 y 1968-1969 con informacin colectada en 2005 y 2006. Las comparaciones se basaron en porcentajes de cobertura y flora en cinco sitios. Los resultados sugieren algunos incrementos y decrementos de ciertos tipos de cobertura vegetal desde la creacin del parque, aunque ninguna tendencia fue consistente entre alturas y aos. Los sitios ms bajos y ms altos tuvieron incrementos significativos de arbustos. A excepcin de uno, todos los sitios mostraron diferencias significativas en cobertura total, y algunas especies cambiaron en abundancia total. Eragrostis lehmanniana estuvo convirtindose en un pasto dominante en las laderas de las montanas Chisos y en el contiguo desierto chihuahueo. En contraste, fatropha dioica, Rhus trilobata, Flourensia cernua, Atriplex canescens, Celtis plida y Glandularia bipinnatifida han desaparecido de algunos o todos los sitios donde haban sido reportado anteriormente.
40985938|To examine pathways, timing, and destinations during migration in spring, we attached satellite-monitored transmitters (platform transmitting terminals) to 10 northern pintails (Anas acuta) during February 2001, at Point Mugu, Ventura County, California. This is a wintering area on the southern coast of California. We obtained locations from five adult males and three adult females every 3rd day through August. Average date of departure from the wintering area was 15 March (SE = 3 days). We documented extended stopovers of  30 days for several northern pintails that could have accommodated nesting attempts (San Joaquin Valley, southwestern Montana, southern Alberta, north-central Nevada) or post-nesting molt (eastern Oregon, south-central Saskatchewan, northern Alaska, central Alberta). Wintering northern pintails from the southern coast of California used a wide range of routes, nesting areas, and schedules during migration in spring, which was consistent with the larger, wintering population in the Central Valley of California. Therefore, conservation of habitat that is targeted at stopover, nesting, and molting areas will benefit survival and management of both wintering populations. Para examinar las rutas, fenologa, y destinos de la migracin primaveral, sujetamos transmisores monitoreados por satlites (platform transmitting terminals, PTTs) a 10 patos golondrinos (Anas acuta) durante febrero del 2001 en Punta Mugu, condado de Ventura, California. Esta es un rea invernal en la costa surea de California. Obtuvimos las ubicaciones de cinco adultos machos y tres adultos hembras cada tercer da hasta finales de agosto. La fecha promedio de partida del rea invernal fue el 15 de marzo (SE = 3 das). Documentamos paradas prolongadas de ? 30 das para varios patos golondrinos que pudieron acomodar intentos de anidacin (valle del ro San Joaqun, suroeste de Montana, sur de Alberta, centro-norte de Nevada) o muda de plumaje pos-anidacin (este de Oregn, centro-sur de Saskatchewan, norte de Alaska, centro de Alberta). Los patos golondrinos invernantes de la costa del sur de California usaron una amplia gama de rutas, reas de anidacin, y horarios durante la migracin en la primavera, que es consistente con la poblacin ms grande en el Valle Central de California. Por consiguiente, la conservacin del habitat orientada en las reas de paradas, anidacin y muda de plumaje beneficiar la supervivencia y el manejo de ambas poblaciones invernantes.
40985939|Studies quantifying the grouping and forage-selection patterns of scimitar-horned oryx (Oryx dammah) in Texas or in their native range, where they are probably extinct, are scarce. This oryx is less dimorphic in size than most ruminants; dimorphism in size is associated with intersexual differences in grouping patterns and diet. We hypothesized that males and females associate in mixed-sex groups and do not exhibit intersexual differences in selection of forage. Our study was conducted at Mason Mountain Wildlife Management Area, Mason County, Texas, during June 2006-April 2007. Grouping patterns were measured from systematic surveys conducted from vehicles at dawn and in the afternoon in 6 different months. We collected fecal samples from individuals of known sex and assessed diet using fragments of plants in fecal samples. We measured seasonal availability of food in areas where fecal samples were collected. We encountered mixed-sex groups more often than same-sex groups and we detected no difference between sexes in diet. However, there were differences among seasons in selection of forage. The majority of diet was grasses, such as Sporobolus and Eragrostis, and forbs. Our study supported expectations based on similar-sized males and females. Estudios que cuantifican los patrones de agrupacin y seleccin de forraje del orix cimitarra (Oryx dammah) en Texas o en su rea nativa, en donde probablemente est extinto, son escasos. Este orix es menos dimrfico en su tamao corporal que la mayora de los rumiantes y el dimorfismo en el tamao corporal est asociado con diferencias intersexuales en sus patrones de agrupacin y su dieta. Nuestra hiptesis fue que machos y hembras se asocian en grupos de ambos sexos y no presentan diferencias intersexuales en la seleccin de forraje. Nuestro estudio se condujo en Mason Mountain Wildlife Management Area, condado de Mason, Texas, durante junio de 2006 a abril de 2007. Los patrones de agrupacin se midieron con mustreos sistemticamente conducidos en vehculos en la madrugada y en la tarde en seis diferentes meses. Colectamos muestras de materia fecal de individuos de sexo conocido y se examin la dieta usando fragmentos de plantas en dichas muestras. Medimos la disponibilidad estacional de alimentos en las zonas donde se colectaron las muestras de materia fecal. Encontramos grupos de ambos sexos con ms frecuencia que grupos del mismo sexo y no detectamos diferencias en dieta entre sexos. No obstante, hubo diferencias entre temporadas en la seleccin de forraje. La mayora de la dieta consisti en pastos, tales como Sporobolus y Eragrostis, y otras plantas aparte de pastos. Nuestro estudio corrobor las expectativas basadas en tamaos similares entre machos y hembras.
40985940|Reliable estimates of size of populations are critical for successful management of translocated desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana). As costs decrease and quality improves, remote cameras are increasingly used as a non-invasive tool to monitor populations of wildlife, but their efficacy has yet to be evaluated in a diversity of species and habitats. Here we investigate whether remote cameras, in combination with a simple mark-resight model, produce estimates of size of populations of desert bighorn sheep comparable to those derived from surveys conducted on the ground and using helicopters in the Fra Cristobal Range of south-central New Mexico. We determined that estimates of size of populations derived from remote cameras were comparable to those produced from direct observations obtained by surveys from helicopters and on the ground, that ca. 25 sequential samples of photographs produced comparable estimates of size of populations, but that photographs of single desert bighorn sheep dramatically lowered estimates of size of populations, and that placement of remote cameras on wildlife guzzlers in July produced the greatest number of photographs in the shortest time. Our results suggest that use of remote cameras may be an accurate, low-cost, and noninvasive means of estimating size of populations of desert bighorn sheep in New Mexico. Further research is warranted, ideally in tandem with ongoing surveys on the ground and using helicopters, in other management areas. Para el manejo exitoso de los borregos cimarrn (Ovis canadensis mexicana) que han sido trasladados, es imprescindible llegar a una estimacin confiable del tamao de las poblaciones. Mientras los costos bajan y la calidad sube, las cmaras remotas se estn empleando cada vez ms como una herramienta no invasiva para monitorear poblaciones de fauna silvestre, pero su eficacia no se ha evaluado con una variedad de especies en habitats distintos. En este estudio, investigamos si las cmaras remotas, junto con un modelo de marca-reubicacin, dan estimaciones de tamaos poblacionales de los borregos cimarrn comparables a los provenientes de mustreos terrestres y desde helicpteros en las montaas Fra Cristbal en el centro-sur de Nuevo Mxico. Descubrimos que las estimaciones del tamao poblacional generadas por cmaras remotas coincidieron con las provenientes de observacin directa por medio de muestreos desde helicpteros y desde la tierra, que aproximadamente 25 muestras secuenciales fotogrficas dieron aproximaciones del tamao poblacional comparables, pero que las fotografas de borregos individuales disminuyeron drsticamente las estimaciones del tamao poblacional, y que las cmaras colocadas en abrevaderos artificiales en julio produjeron el mayor nmero de fotografas en el mnimo de tiempo. Los resultados indican que el uso de cmaras remotas puede ser un mtodo preciso, econmico y no invasivo para estimar el tamao de poblaciones de los borregos cimarrn en Nuevo Mxico. Se necesitan ms investigaciones, idealmente junto con mustreos en la tierra y usando helicpteros, en otras regiones de manejo.
40985941|The Zooplankton fauna of freshwater systems of the Chihuahuan Desert was surveyed 2005-2008. Samples were obtained from habitats including natural lakes, ephemeral waters, springs, and reservoirs. Copepods were sorted and identified to species. Including previous surveys, a total of 38 species occur in the Chihuahuan Desert, the checklist includes 6 calanoids (1 Temoridae, 5 Diaptomidae), 24 cyclopoids (12 Eucyclopinae, 12 Cyclopinae), and 8 harpacticoids. These species were assigned to different biogeographic categories (i.e., cosmopolitan, Nearctic, Neotropical, potential endemics). Results indicated that the Chihuahuan Desert, a transitional biogeographic region in Mexico with both Nearctic and Neotropical influences, represents an interesting geographic and environmental realm characterized by a balanced mixture of elements from different origins and affinities. There is a relatively high proportion (23%) of species that probably are endemic. La fauna de zooplancton de los sistemas de aguas dulces del desierto de Chihuahua fue muestreada en 2005-2008. Las muestras se obtuvieron de hbitats que incluyeron lagos naturales, charcas temporales, manantiales y represas. Se separaron los coppodos y se identificaron a nivel de especie. Incluyendo muestreos previos, un total de 38 especies ocurre en el desierto de Chihuahua, la lista incluye 6 calanoides (1 Temoridae, 5 Diaptomidae), 24 ciclopoides (12 Eucyclopinae, 12 Cyclopinae) y 8 harpacticoides. Estas especies fueron asignadas a diferentes categoras biogeogrficas (por ejemplo, cosmopolita, Nertica, Neotropical, endmica potencial). Los resultados indicaron que el desierto Chihuahuense, una regin biogeogrfica transicional en Mxico, con influencias Nerticas y Neotropicales, representa una interesante entidad geogrfica y ambiental caracterizada por una mezcla balanceada de elementos de diferentes orgenes y afinidades. Hay una proporcin relativamente alta (23%) de especies que probablemente son endmicas.
40985942|The harvester ants Pogonomyrmex barbatus and P. rugosus serve as hosts for the parasitic ants P. anergismus and P. colei. Recent molecular studies demonstrated that morphology is unreliable for identification of hosts because the hosts contain cryptic species. Using mitochondrial-DNA sequences, we determined identity of 15 of 16 known populations of hosts, and in 9 instances, the identity of the particular host colony. Hosts are composed of 6 reproductively isolated lineages. While P. colei is known only from a single host, P. anergismus occurs in five distinct hosts and appears to have a much broader geographic range. We report seven new locality records for P. anergismus. Range extensions for P. anergismus in the United States consist of southwestern Texas including Big Bend National Park, northwestern Texas, central New Mexico, and south-central Arizona. We discuss factors that may influence dispersal of parasitic ants and host-parasite co-evolution. Las hormigas granvoras Pogonomyrmex barbatus y P. rugosus son hospederos de las hormigas parsitas P. anergismus y P. colei. Recientes trabajos moleculares demostraron que la morfologa es poco fiable para la identificacin de los hospederos porque los hospederos estn compuestos de especies crpticas. Usando anlisis de secuencias de ADN mitocondrial, determinamos la identidad de 15 de 16 poblaciones de hospederos, y en nueve casos la identidad de la colonia hospedera particular. Los hospederos son de seis linajes aislados reproductivamente. Mientras que para P. colei se conoce un solo hospedero, para P. anergismus se conocen cinco hospederos diferentes y parece tener un rango de distribucin geogrfica mucho ms amplio. Reportamos siete nuevos registros de localidades para P. anergismus. Las extensiones de la distribucin geogrfica de P. anergismus en los Estados Unidos abarcan el suroeste de Texas incluyendo el parque nacional Big Bend, el noroeste de Texas, el centro de Nuevo Mxico, y el centro sur de Arizona. Discutimos factores que podran influir en la dispersin de las hormigas parsitas y en la co-evolucin parsito-hospedero.
40985943|During 2002-2003, we collected samples of leaf litter (10-cm diameter) from two woodland sites in southwestern Louisiana and one in central Florida. In Louisiana, we collected at four times (autumn, winter, spring, and summer) and in Florida in spring and summer. We divided each sample into two layers, an upper leafy layer (1-2 cm in depth) and a lower layer of humus (1-2 cm in depth). We detected six species of tardigrades in samples from Louisiana and five in samples from Florida. Seasonal variation in density of tardigrades was pronounced at each site. Tardigrades generally were more abundant in the upper layer. Density and diversity of tardigrades in the leaf litter at these sites were less than in mountainous areas of Italy and Tennessee, USA. Durante 2002-2003 colectamos muestras de hojarasca (10 cm de dimetro) de dos sitios boscosos en el suroeste de Louisiana y uno en Florida central. En Louisiana colectamos cuatros veces (otoo, invierno, primavera y verano) y en Florida dos veces (primavera y verano). Separamos todas las muestras en dos capas, una capa superior de hojas (1-2 cm de profundidad) y una capa inferior de humus. Detectamos seis especies de tardgrados en las muestras de Louisiana y cinco en las de Florida. La variacin estacional en la densidad de tardgrados fue notable en todos los sitios. Hubo por lo general ms tardgrados en la capa superior. La densidad y diversidad de tardgrados en la hojarasca en estos sitios fueron menos que en regiones montaosas de Italia y Tennessee, USA.
40985944|For captive-bred Devils River minnows (Dionda diaboli), which are federally listed as threatened, we measured critical thermal maxima when they were acclimated at 18, 22, 24, and 27C. Critical thermal maxima were 32.6, 34.3, 35.3, and 37.8C and were positively correlated with temperatures of acclimation, but not with either gender or size. There was high pre-test mortality (39%) for fish held at 28C for 72 days. Para las sardinitas diabla (Dionda diaboli) criadas en cautiverio y federalmente clasificadas como amenazadas, medimos las mximas trmicas crticas cuando fueron aclimatadas a 18, 22, 24, y 27C. Las mximas trmicas crticas fueron 32.6, 34.3, 35.3, y 37.8C y se correlacionaron positivamente con las temperaturas de aclimatacin pero no con sexo ni tamao. Hubo una alta mortandad (39%) anterior a las pruebas en peces mantenidos a 28C por 72 das.
40985945|Effects of in-stream hiking on benthic standing stocks and drifting aquatic invertebrates and on organic matter were examined in the North Fork of the Virgin River, Zion National Park, Washington County, Utah. Densities of drifting aquatic invertebrates and organic matter increased with increasing numbers of hikers and reached a threshold level at high numbers of hikers. However, there was no apparent longer-term effect on standing stocks of benthic invertebrates or on organic matter. Densities of benthic invertebrates and organic matter did not differ among sites. Results suggest that instream hiking in the North Fork of the Virgin River increases drifting by invertebrates, but invertebrates from nearby undisturbed patches readily colonize impacted reaches. Los efectos de excursionistas caminando en el agua en organismos bnticos e invertebrados acuticos a la deriva y en materia orgnica fueron examinados en el North Fork del ro Virgin en el Parque Nacional Zion, condado de Washington, Utah. La densidad de invertebrados acuticos a la deriva y la materia orgnica aumentaron con el nmero de excursionistas, y se estabilizaron con un alto nmero de excursionistas. Sin embargo, los efectos a largo plazo no fueron evidentes en invertebrados bnticos o en la materia orgnica. La densidad de invertebrados bnticos y la materia orgnica no cambiaron entre sitios. Estos resultados sugieren que las excursionistas caminando en el agua en el North Fork del ro Virgin aumentan el movimiento a la deriva de invertebrados, pero los invertebrados de zonas cercanas intactas colonizan las zonas impactadas fcilmente.
40985946|We report two fossil specimens of the desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) from Cathedral Cave, White Pine County, Nevada. These specimens are diagnosed as G. agassizii based on morphology of the scute sulcus on the entoplastron and anterior constriction and morphology of the scute sulcus of the epiplastron. The fossils have a maximum age of 146,020  2,584-151,200  4,400 years, and represent the first record of Pleistocene turtles from within the hydrographie Great Basin. Documentation of fossil turtles within the east-central Great Basin at this time interval suggests that turtles were extirpated from much of the Great Basin by environmental changes or other factors that took place sometime between deposition of the Cathedral Cave deposit and the latest Pleistocene, when diverse reptilian assemblages across the Great Basin were devoid of turtles. Reportamos dos ejemplares fsiles de Gopherus agassizii de la cueva Cathedral, condado de White Pine, Nevada. Estos ejemplares pueden ser identificados como G. agassizii en base a la morfologa del sulcus del escudo en el entoplastrn y la constriccin anterior y la morfologa del sulcus del escudo en el epiplastrn. Los fsiles tienen una edad mxima de entre 146,020  2,584-151,200  4,400 aos, y representan el primer registro de tortugas para el Pleistoceno en la cuenca hidrogrfica de la Great Basin. El registro de tortugas fsiles en el centro-este de la Great Basin durante este intervalo temporal sugiere que las tortugas fueron eliminadas de esta regin por cambios ambientales u otros factores en algn momento entre la formacin de los depsitos de la cueva Cathedral y el Pleistoceno tardo, poca en que el registro de reptiles en la Great Basin carece de tortugas.
40985947|Wild boars (Sus scrofa) are increasing in abundance and geographic distribution throughout North America. Our objectives were to determine daily and hourly activity patterns. We placed global-positioning-system collars on 25 wild boars from two sites in southern Texas. Wild boars at both sites displayed highly nocturnal activity patterns, and during the dormant and early growing season, activity increased with rising temperatures. Los jabalis (Sus scrofa) estn incrementando su abundancia y distribucin geogrfica en toda Norteamrica. Nuestros objetivos fueron determinar los patrones de actividad por da y por hora. Colocamos collares con sistemas de posicionamiento global en 25 jabals en dos sitios al sur de Texas. Jabals en ambos sitios mostraron patrones de alta actividad nocturna, y durante la temporada de inactividad y crecimiento temprano, la actividad se increment con el aumento de la temperatura.
40985948|The ocelot, Leopardus pardalis, is a medium-sized Neotropical felid with a relatively wide geographical distribution. Across their range, ocelots exhibit clinal variation in pattern and color of pelage. Despite this variation, few aberrant genetic morphs have been documented. This record describes the first apparent leucistic variant for the ocelot: a white female with black markings that was treed on three occasions over a 3-year period in the transitional Chaco of western Paraguay. El ocelote, Leopardus paradalis, es un felino neotropical de tamao mediano con una distribucin geogrfica relativamente amplia. A travs de su distribucin, los ocelotes exhiben una variacin gradual en el patrn y color del pelaje. A pesar de esta variacin, pocos morfos genticos aberrantes han sido documentados. Este registro describe el primer caso aparente de la reduccin de la pigmentacin para el ocelote: una hembra blanca con marcas negras que fue acorralada en un rbol en tres ocasiones durante un perodo de tres aos en el Chaco transicional del Paraguay occidental.
40985949|We present new information on 26 species of birds encountered in the Plains of Tehuantepec, Oaxaca, Mexico, including four species new to the state: snow goose (Chen caerulescens), prairie falcon (Falco mexicanus), red-throated pipit (Anthus cervinus), and bobolink (Dolichonyx orizyvorus). Improving knowledge of status and distribution of species in this area is important to assess conservation risk due to proposed establishment of thousands of wind turbines on the Pacific lowlands of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. Presentamos informacin nueva referente a 26 especies de aves encontradas en las planicies de Tehuantepec, Oaxaca, Mxico, incluyendo cuatro nuevas especies para el estado: ganso blanco (Chen caerulescens) , halcn mexicano (Falco mexicanus), bisbita garganta roja (Anthus cervinus), y tordo arrocero (Dolichonyx orizyvorus). Incrementar el conocimiento del estatus y distribucin de las especies en esta rea es importante para determinar riesgos a su conservacin debido a la propuesta para el establecimiento de miles de aerogeneradores en las tierras bajas del Pacfico en el istmo de Tehuantepec.
40985950|Cyprinids belonging to the genus Dionda have a relatively broad distribution in southwestern North America. However, validity of populations in several of the nominal species has not been examined rigorously. During the course of a conservation-genetics study of Dionda in western Texas we determined that one population presumed to represent Dionda episcopa instead belongs to Dionda argentosa. This extends the native range of D. argentosa to include the lower Pecos River basin in addition to its currently recognized distribution in three tributaries of the Rio Grande. Conservation implications for both species are discussed. Ciprnidos pertenecientes al gnero Dionda tienen una distribucin relativamente amplia en el suroeste de Norte Amrica. A pesar de esto, la validez de poblaciones en varias especies nominales no ha sido examinada rigurosamente. Durante un estudio gentico para la conservacin de Dionda en el oeste de Texas, determinamos que una poblacin que se presuma pertenecer a la especie Dionda episcopa, pertenece en cambio a Dionda argentosa. Este hallazgo extiende la distribucin nativa de D. argentosa para incluir la cuenca baja del ro Pecos adems de su distribucin reconocida actual en tres tributarios del ro Grande. Adicionalmente, discutimos implicaciones para la conservacin de las dos especies.
40985951|Ecological boundaries have been of interest to naturalists since the time of Darwin and Wallace because they are transitional zones on the landscape across which distinct changes occur in constitution of plant and animal communities. In the xeric landscapes of the central Baja California Peninsula, fan palm (Erythea armata and Washingtonia robusta) oases are small (usually < 1 ha) mesophilic islands of structurally complex habitats. We report new records of mesophilic reptiles and amphibians from the adjacent Californian biome in palm groves of the Sonoran region; these highly philopatric species provide evidence of earlier cooler and moister Pleistocene environments. The fan palm oases of the central Baja California Peninsula are natural laboratories for the study of evolutionary processes because they provide unique mesic habitats in a changing desert landscape. Los lmites ecolgicos han sido de inters para los naturalistas desde los tiempos de Darwin y Wallace debido a que son zonas de transicin en el paisaje donde ocurren cambios en la estructura de comunidades de plantas y animales. Los oasis de palma de abanico (Erythea armata y Washingtonia robusta) presentes en los ambientes xricos de la regin central de la pennsula de Baja California, Mxico, son pequeas islas mesoflicas (usualmente < 1 ha) de hbitats estructuralmente complejos. Reportamos nuevos registros de reptiles y anfibios de ambientes mesoflicos del adyacente bioma californiano en palmares de la regin sonorense; estas especies altamente filoptricas proveen evidencia de previos ambientes ms hmedos y menos clidos del Pleistocene Los oasis de palma de abanico de la regin central de la pennsula de Baja California son laboratorios naturales para el estudio de los procesos evolutivos porque proveen habitats mesoflicos nicos en los paisajes cambiantes del desierto.
40985952|We report the first record of Van Gelder's bat (Bauerus dubiaquercus) from El Salvador, Central America. This is the first report of Van Gelder's bat from the Pacific versant of Mesoamerica, between Guerrero, Mexico, and Costa Rica, a distance of ca. 1,850 km. Reportamos el primer registro del murcilago de Van Gelder (Bauerus dubiaquercus) para El Salvador, Centroamrica. Este es el primer registro del murcilago de Van Gelder para la costa del Pacfico en Mesoamrica, entre Guerrero, Mxico, y Costa Rica, una distancia que se aproxima a 1,850 km.
40985953|Ten new county records and significant extensions of known geographic ranges are reported for 10 taxa of fishes within 6 families (Atherinopsidae, Catostomidae, Centrarchidae, Cyprinidae, Fundulidae, and Percidae) from five rivers in Arkansas. Records are presented for the shoal chub (Macrhybopsis hyostoma), highfin carpsucker (Carpiodes velifer), golden redhorse (Moxostoma erythrurum), pealip redhorse (Moxostoma pisolabrum) , northern starhead topminnow (Fundulus dispar), Mississippi silverside (Menidia audens), dollar sunfish (Lepomis marginatus), crystal darter (Crystallaria asprella), mud darter (Etheostoma asprigene), and river darter (Percina shumardi). Diez registros nuevos del condado y extensiones importantes de la distribucin geogrfica conocida se reportan para 10 taxa de peces dentro de 6 familias (Atherinopsidae Catostomidae, Centrarchidae, Cyprinidae, Fundulidae, y Percidae) de cinco ros de Arkansas. Los registros se presentan para el cacho (Macrhybopsis hyostoma), el matalote (Carpiodes velifer), dos chupones (Moxostoma erythrurum y Moxostoma pisolabrum), la sardinilla (Fundulus dispar), el pejerrey (Menidia audens), la mojarra (Lepomis marginatus), y tres dardos (Crystallaria asprella, Etheostoma asprigene, y Percina shumardi).
40985954|We describe a method for making clay mimics of bird eggs. These eggs can be used in experiments that require many uniform, accurate artificial eggs. We developed methods and made about 1,000 clay eggs at a cost of $0.55 each. Describimos un mtodo para hacer huevos falsos de arcilla que imitan a los huevos de los pjaros. Estos huevos se pueden utilizar en experimentos que requieren muchos huevos artificiales que son copias uniformes y exactas. Desarrollamos los mtodos e hicimos cerca de 1,000 huevos de arcilla en $0.55 cada uno.
40985955|This is the first report of cannibalism in a free-ranging population of jaguars (Panthera onca). An encounter among unfamiliar jaguars may have provoked social stress, a behavior reported in other free-ranging carnivores. Este es el primer reporte de canibalismo en una poblacin de jaguares (Panthera onca) de vida libre. Un encuentro entre jaguares desconocidos pudo haber provocado estrs social, un comportamiento reportado en otros carnvoros de vida libre.
40985956|We collected 12 mountain clingfish Gobiesox fluviatilis in the Ro Tamazula that represent the first record of the species in both the Ro Culiacn basin and the state of Sinaloa, Mexico. We compared proportions of body and counts of fin rays of the new specimens with those previously reported for this species. Colectamos 12 individuos del pez cucharita de montaa Gobiesox fluviatis en el ro Tamazula que representan el primer registro de la especie en la cuenca del ro Culiacn y en el estado de Sinaloa, Mxico. Comparamos proporciones corporales y conteos de radios de aletas de los nuevos especmenes con los previamente reportados para esta especie.
23028104|We documented habitat associations of elk (Cervus elaphus) in spring, summer, and autumn, and identified features of habitats that were most closely related to nutritional condition. We tracked 2356 radiocollared females, modeled nutritional condition as a function of vegetative relationships, and identified variables influencing distribution using presence modeling. Home ranges included quaking aspens and large tracts of wildfire-burned vegetative cover in excess of their availability in the landscape, and elk were located in aspen and burns far in excess of their availability. Accrual of body fat was most closely and negatively associated with abundance of pinyon-junipers, ponderosa pines, and other coniferous vegetation. Models revealed strong associations with areas at higher elevations and <5 km from water, which are associated with open water and increased vegetation. Distribution, quality of habitat, and nutritional condition of elk can be affected by management aimed at opening coniferous vegetation, increasing abundance and distribution of aspens, and promoting natural or prescribed burning. These actions would be most effective 5 km from water. Documentamos las asociaciones del hbitat del uapit (Cervus elaphus) en la primavera, el verano y el otoo e identificamos las caractersticas del hbitat que ms cercanamente se relacionaron con la condicin nutricional. Rastreamos 2356 hembras con radiotransmisores, modelamos su condicin nutricional como una funcin de relaciones vegetales e identificamos los variables que influyen en su distribucin usando un modelo de presencia. Los rangos de hogar incluyeron un uso mayor a lo disponible en el paisaje de los lamos y reas grandes quemadas con cobertura vegetal, y los uapits fueron localizados en sitios quemados y con lamos mucho ms que en su disponibilidad. La acumulacin de grasa corporal estuvo relacionada ms estrechamente y negativamente a la abundancia de piones-junperos, pinos ponderosa y otra vegetacin de conferas. Los modelos revelaron fuertes asociaciones con reas en alturas superiores y <5 km de cuerpos de agua, las cuales estn asociadas con agua abierta y ms vegetacin. La distribucin, calidad del hbitat y condicin nutricional de los uapits pueden ser afectadas por el manejo que apunte en hacer ms abierta la vegetacin de conferas, incrementar la abundancia y distribucin de lamos, y promover los incendios naturales o prescritos. Estas acciones podran ser ms efectivas a distancias 5 km de cuerpos de agua.
23028105|On the Llano Estacado of Texas, roads and agricultural development have divided once continuous prairie into a patchwork of habitats that differ in size and use. In an agricultural matrix, populations of small mammals were studied to assess effects of roads and corridors on movement and dispersal. During 52,416 trap nights and by tracking mammals dusted with fluorescent powder, we investigated frequency that animals crossed roads and irrigated crop circles. Sites bisected by wide roads with corridors had greater richness; whereas, sites divided by narrow roads with corridors had a significantly greater abundance of hispid cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus). Based on our studies using powder-tracking, only reproductively active males of North American deermice (Peromyscus maniculatus) and western harvest mice (Reithrodontomys megalotis) moved significantly more along roads than away from or toward roads. Our results suggest that unfarmed crop corners are valuable habitat for wildlife; small mammals present may be impacted differentially by type of roadways that are present. En el Llano Estacado de Texas, los caminos y el desarrollo agrcola han dividido la pradera anteriormente continua en un mosaico de hbitats que difieren en tamao y en uso del terreno. En una matriz agrcola, las poblaciones de mamferos pequeos fueron estudiadas para determinar los efectos de caminos y de corredores en el movimiento y en la dispersin. Durante 52,416 trampas-noches y rastreando mamferos espolvoreados con polvo fluorescente, investigamos la frecuencia con que los animales cruzaron los caminos y los crculos irrigados de la cosecha. Los sitios bisecados por los caminos anchos con corredores tenan mayor riqueza; mientras que, los sitios divididos por los caminos estrechos con corredores tenan una abundancia significativamente mayor de las ratas de algodn (Sigmodon hispidus). Basados en nuestros resultados usando la tcnica de rastrear a los animales espolvoreados, solamente los machos reproductivamente activos de los ratones norteamericanos (Peromyscus maniculatus) y los ratones occidentales de cosecha (Reithrodontomys megalotis) se trasladaron significativamente ms a lo largo de los caminos que fuera o hacia los caminos. Nuestros resultados sugieren que las esquinas de la cosecha que no se cultivan son hbitat valioso para la fauna silvestre; los mamferos pequeos presentes pueden ser impactados en forma diferente debido al tipo de caminos presentes.
23028106|We developed a habitat model of urban-nesting Cooper's hawks (Accipiter cooperii) based on characteristics of nest sites in Tucson, Pima County, Arizona. We tested the model in three urban areas in southern Arizona. In Green Valley, the model correctly predicted expected occupancy at six of seven potential home ranges. However, we found no nest of Cooper's hawk at 4 and 16 sites in Casa Grande and Phoenix, respectively, with model-expected occupancy. No nest of Cooper's hawk was at any site in any of the three urban areas where our model predicted no occupancy. We speculate that high temperatures in the lower-elevation cities (Phoenix and Casa Grande) were beyond thermal tolerance of nesting Cooper's hawks. Desarrollamos un modelo de hbitat para gavilanes de Cooper (Accipiter cooperii) en base a caractersticas de sitios de anidacin en Tucson, Pima County, Arizona. Probamos el modelo en tres zonas urbanas del sur de Arizona. En Green Valley, el modelo predijo correctamente la ocupacin esperada en seis de siete rangos de hogar potenciales. Sin embargo, no se encontr ningn nido de gaviln de Cooper en 4 y en 16 sitios en Casa Grande y Phoenix, respectivamente, a pesar de la prediccin de ocupacin por el modelo. No se encontr ningn nido de gaviln de Cooper en los sitios en las tres reas urbanas donde el modelo predijo no ocupacin. Especulamos que las altas temperaturas en las ciudades de menor altitud (Phoenix y Casa Grande) excedieron la tolerancia trmica de los gavilanes de Cooper anidantes.
23028107|The Pinaleo Mountains of southeastern Arizona contain the southernmost population of red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) in North America. Red squirrels historically inhabited the Guadalupe Mountains in Trans-Pecos Texas during the Pleistocene and the possibility that red squirrels currently persist has been suggested by several biologists visiting the upper-elevation forests. Herein, we report results of an assessment of small mammals in coniferous forest where we used observational line transects, playback calls, and live trapping to determine status of red squirrels. We surveyed 132 ha of coniferous forest along 8.9 km of transects and observed and found evidence of 10 species of mammals. We detected no evidence of red squirrels inhabiting high-elevation coniferous forest. Las montaas Pinaleo en el sudeste de Arizona contienen la poblacin ms surea de la ardilla roja (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) en Norteamrica. Histricamente las ardillas rojas habitaban las montaas Guadalupe en el Trans-Pecos de Texas durante el Pleistoceno y la posibilidad de que las ardillas rojas todava estn ha sido sugerida por varios bilogos que han visitado los bosques de la parte alta. Aqu reportamos los resultados de un muestreo de mamferos pequeos del bosque confero donde utilizamos observaciones en transectos de lnea, emisiones de grabaciones de vocalizaciones, y trampeo vivo para determinar el estatus de las ardillas rojas. Muestreamos 132 ha de bosque confero a travs de 8.9 km de transectos y observamos y encontramos evidencia de 10 especies de mamferos. No encontramos ninguna evidencia de que las ardillas rojas habiten el bosque confero de las alturas superiores.
23028108|We used mixed-effects models to examine relationships of reproductive characteristics of the giant gartersnake (Thamnophis gigas) to improve population modeling and conservation planning for this species. Neonates from larger litters had lower mass, and mass of neonates also was affected by random variation among mothers. Length of mother did not affect relative mass of litters; however, our data suggest that longer mothers expended less reproductive effort per offspring than shorter mothers. We detected random variation in length of neonates among mothers, but these lengths were not related to length of mother or size of litter. Mean size of litter varied among years, but little evidence existed for a relationship between size of litter or mass of litter and length of mother. Sex ratios of neonates did not differ from 1:1. Se utilizaron modelos de efectos mixtos para examinar las relaciones de las caractersticas reproductivas de la serpiente (Thamnophis gigas) para mejorar el mtodo para modelar poblaciones y la planificacin de la conservacin de esta especie. Camadas ms grandes de recin nacidos tuvieron una menor masa, y la masa de recin nacidos tambin fue afectada por la variacin aleatoria entre las madres. La longitud de la madre no afect la masa relativa de la camada; sin embargo, nuestros datos sugieren que las madres ms largas gastaron menos esfuerzo reproductivo por cra que madres ms cortas. Detectamos variacin aleatoria en la longitud de los recin nacidos entre madres, pero estas longitudes no fueron relacionadas ni con la longitud de la madre ni con el tamao de la camada. El promedio del tamao de la camada vari entre aos, pero existi poca evidencia de una relacin entre el tamao o masa de la camada y la longitud de la madre. La proporcin de los sexos en recin nacidos no difirieron de 1:1.
23028109|We evaluated predation on nests and methods to detect predators using a combination of infrared cameras and plasticine eggs at nests of American avocets (Recurvirostra americana) and black-necked stilts (Himantopus mexicanus) in Don Edwards San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge, San Mateo and Santa Clara counties, California. Each technique indicated that predation was prevalent; 59% of monitored nests were depredated. Most identifiable predation (n = 49) was caused by mammals (71%) and rates of predation were similar on avocets and stilts. Raccoons (Procyon lotor) and striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) each accounted for 16% of predations, whereas gray foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) and avian predators each accounted for 14%. Mammalian predation was mainly nocturnal (mean time, 0051 h  5 h 36 min), whereas most avian predation was in late afternoon (mean time, 1800 h  1 h 26 min). Nests with cameras and plasticine eggs were 1.6 times more likely to be predated than nests where only cameras were used in monitoring. Cameras were associated with lower abandonment of nests and provided definitive identification of predators. Evaluamos la depredacin de nidos y mtodos de deteccin de depredadores usando una combinacin de cmaras con luz infraroja y huevos de plasticina colocados en nidos del piquicurvo (Recurvirostra americana) y del candelero mexicano (Himantopus mexicanus) en Don Edwards San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge, condados de San Mateo y Santa Clara, California. Cada tcnica indic que la depredacin de nidos era comn; 59% de los nidos estudiados fueron depredados. La depredacin ms identificable (n = 49) fue causada por mamferos (71%) y las tasas de depredacin fueron similares entre las dos especies de playeros. Los mapaches (Procyon lotor) y los zorrillos (Mephitis mephitis) se adjudicaron por separado 16% de la depredacin, mientras que los zorros grises (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) y aves depredadoras fueron responsables por 14%, cada uno. La depredacin de mamferos fue mayormente nocturna (hora media = 0051 h  5 h 36 min), mientras que aves depredaban mayormente tarde por la tarde (hora media = 1800 h  1 h 26 min). Nidos con cmaras y huevos de plasticina fueron 1.6 veces ms propensos a ser depredados que los con cmaras solamente. Cmaras fueron asociadas con nidos menos abandonados y proveyeron identificacin definitiva de los depredadores.
23028110|Little information is available on spiders in the Chihuahuan Desert. In the Jornada del Muerto of southern New Mexico, we collected ca. 120 species of spiders in the past 30 years. We report four state records and five potential undescribed species. A comparison of our list of species with those from three other areas in the Chihuahuan Desert (White Sands National Monument and vicinity and Valley of Fires near Carrizozo and vicinity, both in New Mexico, and an area near Big Bend, Texas) revealed low overlap, indicating that the regional spider fauna is still not fully known. Baseline knowledge of the spider fauna from several sites could serve as a criterion for assessing climatic change. Hay poca informacin disponible sobre las araas del desierto Chihuahuense. Durante los ltimos treinta aos, hemos colectado cerca de 120 especies de araas en la Jornada del Muerto en el sur de Nuevo Mxico. Reportamos cuatro registros nuevos para el estado y cinco posibles especies no descritas previamente. Al comparar nuestra lista de especies con las de tres otras reas del desierto Chihuahuense (Monumento Nacional de White Sands e inmediaciones y Valley of the Fires e inmediaciones cerca a Carrizozo, Nuevo Mxico; y un rea cerca a Big Bend en Texas) observamos poco traslape, indicando que la fauna regional de araas es an poco conocida. Informacin bsica sobre la aracnofauna de diferentes localidades podra servir como un criterio para estimar cambios climticos.
23028111|Pembroke Township, Kankakee County, Illinois, is part of an extensive glacial sand deposit. In this part of Illinois, some sand savannas retain much of their original natural character and they have high diversity; we detected 574 taxa of plants, including 11 state-listed endangered and threatened species. On five sites, we evaluated vegetation that varied from dry sand savanna to closed sand forest with Quercus velutina (black oak) dominating the overstory and Q. alba (white oak) the only other species of tree commonly encountered. Density of trees averaged 135.7 stems/ha, with an average basal area of 7.94 m/ha on our five sites. Based on aerial photographs, the extent of woody overstory has more than doubled since 1939. El municipio Pembroke, condado de Kankakee, Illinois, es parte de un depsito extenso de arena glacial. Algunas sabanas arenales de esta parte de Illinois mantienen mucho de su carcter natural y original y tienen alta diversidad. Encontramos 574 taxa de plantas, incluso 11 especies en la lista del estado de especies amenazadas o en vas de extincin. En cinco sitios evaluamos la vegetacin, que vara de sabana arenal seca hasta bosque cerrado arenal, con Quercus velutina (encino negro) dominando el dosel superior y Quercus alba (encino blanco) la nica otra especie de rbol comnmente presente. El promedio de densidad de rboles fue 135.7 tallos/ha y el promedio del rea basal fue 7.94 m/ha en nuestros cinco sitios. Basados en fotografas areas, la extensin del dosel superior leoso se ha ms que duplicado desde 1939.
23028112|I observed 215 nesting events of Pseudemys texana (134) and Trachemys scripta (81) from 25 April to 14 July 2008 on a golf course in Hays County, Texas. For P. texana, 111 (82.8%) nested one time, 21 (15.7%) nested twice, and 2 (1.5%) nested three times. For T. scripta, 53 (65.4%) nested one time, 24 (29.6%) nested twice, 3 nested three times (3.7%), and 1 nested four times (1.2%). Both species had an internesting interval of ca. 30 days between first and second clutches. Subsequent internesting intervals were shorter but samples were not sufficient to address whether this was fortuitous. On their first attempt, 82% of P. texana and 78% of T. scripta completed nesting. Nesting was diurnal with most activity occurring before noon. Neither distance to nesting site from water nor number of days from the first nesting event to the next nesting event varied with length of plastron. Observ 215 acontecimientos de nidificacin de Pseudemys texana (134) y de Trachemys scripta (81) del 25 abril a 14 julio del 2008 en un campo de golf en el condado de Hays, Texas. Ciento once (82.8%) P. texana anidaron slo una vez, 21 (15.7%) anidaron dos veces, y 2 (1.5%) anidaron tres veces. Cincuenta y tres (65.4%) T. scripta anidaron slo una vez, 24 (29.6%) anidaron dos veces, 3 anidaron tres veces (3.7%), y 1 anidaron cuatro veces (1.2%). Ambas especies tuvieron un intervalo de tiempo entre nidificacin de aproximadamente 30 das entre las primeras y segundas puestas. Los intervalos subsiguientes entre puestas fueron ms cortos pero los tamaos de la muestra no fueron suficientes para concluir si esto fue fortuito. El ochenta y dos por ciento de P. texana y 78% del T. scripta terminaron la nidificacin en su primer intento. La nidificacin fue diurna con la mayora de las actividades ocurriendo antes del medioda. Ni la distancia del lugar del nido hasta el agua ni el nmero de das del primer acontecimiento de nidificacin hasta el segundo vari con la longitud del plastrn.
23028113|The dwarf palmetto, Sabal minor, reaches the northwestern limit of its geographic range in McCurtain County, Oklahoma, where it is critically imperiled. We determined that S. minor was more widespread than previously reported; 28 new localities were identified. Populations were associated positively with average annual minimum temperatures (i.e., plants were in the warmest parts of the county), negatively associated with elevation, and the species primarily occurred on silty clay soils. Although S. minor was common in a few areas near Red Slough Wildlife Management Area, it generally was uncommon and typically represented by only a few individuals. Ecological Niche Factor Analysis projected that suitable habitat was concentrated in southeastern McCurtain County, but that potentially suitable habitat was present throughout much of the county. El palmeto enano, Sabal minor, llega al lmite noroeste de su distribucin geogrfica en el condado de McCurtain en Oklahoma, donde est crticamente en peligro. Encontramos que S. minor estuvo ms ampliamente distribuido que lo informado anteriormente, con 28 nuevas localidades identificadas. Poblaciones se asociaron positivamente con la media temperatura mnima anual (es decir, las plantas se encontraron en la parte ms clida del condado) y negativamente con la altura, y se encontraron principalmente en suelos de arcilla limosa. Aunque S. minor fue comn en algunas zonas cercanas a Red Slough Wildlife Management Area, fue en general poco frecuente y normalmente fue representado por pocos individuos. Un anlisis de factores del nicho ecolgico concluy que el hbitat adecuado se concentr en el sureste del condado de McCurtain, pero que ms hbitat potencialmente adecuado estuvo presente en mucho del condado.
23028114|We studied demography of a population of viviparous lizard, Sceloporus bicanthalis, from Nevado de Toluca Volcano, Mexico, using mark-recapture methods. Age structure of this population varied seasonally due to an increase in number of juveniles over summer, although neonates were observed in every month. Estimated average density was 304 individuals/ha. Snout-vent length at sexual maturity in viviparous S. bicanthalis was 31 mm in males and 32 mm in females. Males survived longer than females, with an expected lifespan of 15 months, compared to 8 months for females. Net reproductive rate of this population was 1, suggesting it was at equilibrium, while generation time was 7 months. This high-elevation population has a semelparous life cycle. Estudiamos la demografa de una poblacin de lagartijas vivparas, Sceloporus bicanthalis, ubicada en el volcn Nevado de Toluca, Mxico, usando la tcnica de captura-marcaje-recaptura. La estructura poblacional vari estacionalmente debido al aumento de juveniles durante el verano, aunque las cras fueron observadas en todos los meses. La estimacin de la densidad promedio fue de 304 lagartijas/ha. La longitud hocico-cloaca a la madurez sexual de la lagartija vivpara S. bicanthalis fue de 31 mm en machos y 32 mm en hembras. Los machos sobrevivieron ms meses que las hembras, con una esperanza de vida de 15 meses comparados con 8 meses para las hembras. La tasa reproductora neta para esta poblacin fue de 1, sugiriendo que la poblacin se encontr en equilibrio, y el tiempo generacional fue de 7 meses. Esta poblacin de gran altura tiene un ciclo de vida de tipo semlparo.
23028115|Diversity of arthropods preyed upon by the carnivorous plant Pinguicula moranensis was analyzed during 2006 within a pine-oak (Pinus-Quercus) forest in the Sierra de Pachuca, Hidalgo, Mexico. A total of 570 individuals of nine orders was collected. Hemiptera was recorded as prey of this plant for the first time. The most prevalent order was Diptera, with 53.6% of total prey; within this order, Sciaridae accounted for 64.7% of prey. The month with the highest values for alpha diversity was July (H = 1.32). Greatest turnover of orders was JuneNovember and that of families of Diptera was July August. Total beta diversity was greater in families of Diptera, with a value of 1.29, while that of orders of arthropods was 0.53. Se analiz la diversidad de presas de artrpodos en la planta carnvora Pinguicula moranensis durante 2006 en un bosque de pino-encino (Pinus-Quercus) en la Sierra de Pachuca, Hidalgo, Mxico. Se recolect un total de 570 individuos de nueve rdenes. Hemiptera no se tena registrado anteriormente como presa de esta planta. El orden de mayor importancia fue Diptera, con 53.6% del total de presas; dentro de este orden, Sciaridae contribuy con 64.7% de las presas. El mes con los valores ms altos de diversidad alfa fue julio (H = 1.32). El recambio ms alto de rdenes fue entre junio y noviembre y el de familias de Diptera fue entre julio y agosto. La diversidad beta total fue ms alta en las familias de Diptera, con un valor de 1.29, mientras que la de los rdenes de artrpodos tuvo un valor de 0.53.
23028116|We examined nesting in Norops lionotus to describe nesting sites and to determine if nesting aggregations were by multiple females or repeated deposition of eggs by the same female. We also described eggs during incubation and the subsequent hatchlings. We collected eggs from nests along streams at Omar Torrijos National Park in central Panama and incubated them until they hatched. We located seven nests (six active, one inactive) containing 47 eggshells (2 depredated; 45 hatched) and 67 unhatched eggs. All nests were on the downstream side of large boulders covered by moss and herbaceous vegetation. Estimated minimum number of females using each nest was one to five, depending on assumptions of the estimate. Estimates indicated that nesting aggregations were a combination of multiple females nesting communally and repeated deposition of eggs by the same female. Hatchlings averaged 2.66 cm in snoutvent length, 4.60 cm in length of tail, and 0.42 g in mass, with no significant difference between males and females or among nests. Overall sex ratio for hatchlings was not significantly different from 1:1. Examinamos la anidacin en Norops lionotus para describir los sitios seleccionados para anidar y para determinar si las agrupaciones de nidos fueron el resultado de nidos comunales de hembras mltiples o la puesta repetida de huevos por la misma hembra. Tambin describimos los huevos durante la incubacin y las subsecuentes cras. Recogimos los huevos de nidos a lo largo de arroyos en el Parque Nacional Omar Torrijos en el centro de Panam y los incubamos hasta que eclosionaron. Encontramos siete nidos (seis activos, uno inactivo) conteniendo 47 cscaras de huevo (2 depredados; 45 eclosionados) y 67 huevos enteros. Todos los nidos se encontraron ro abajo de rocas grandes cubiertas por musgo y vegetacin herbcea. La estimacin del nmero mnimo de hembras que utilizaban cada nido vari de uno a cinco, dependiendo de las suposiciones de las estimaciones. Las estimaciones indicaron que las agregaciones de nidos fueron una combinacin de hembras mltiples anidando comunalmente y la puesta repetida de huevos por la misma hembra. El promedio de longitud hocico-cloaca de las cras fue 2.66 cm, de longitud de cola 4.60 cm, y de masa 0.42 g, sin diferencias significativas entre machos y hembras o entre nidos. La proporcin de los sexos para las cras no fue significativamente diferente de 1:1.
23028117|We studied seasonal dietary patterns of Sceloporus jarrovii from a desert environment northwest of Gomez Palacio, Durango, Mexico. Stomach contents were examined (n = 82) and relative abundance and volume were determined. Formicids (ants) were the most abundant prey in all seasons. Other abundant foods were coleopterans (summer, winter) and isopterans (autumn, winter). Based on relative abundance in all seasons, S. jarrovii had a narrow breadth of diet, but relative volume of foods was broader. Overlap between sexes for relative abundance and volume was high throughout the year. However, low overlap in relative volume in spring indicated variation in diet between sexes. Three of the most common prey throughout the year varied significantly between sexes in length, width, and volume. However, volumes of the three most abundant foods were not correlated with snoutvent length of lizards. Estudiamos los patrones estacionales de la dieta de Sceloporus jarrovii de un ambiente desrtico del noroeste de Gmez Palacio, Durango, Mxico. Fueron examinados contenidos estomacales (n = 82) y se determin su abundancia y volumen relativo. Los formcidos (hormigas) fueron las presas ms abundantes en todas las estaciones. Otros alimentos abundantes fueron los colepteros (verano e invierno) e ispteros (otoo e invierno). Basados en la abundancia relativa en todas las estaciones, S. jarrovii tena una amplitud baja de dieta, pero el volumen relativo de alimento fue ms alto. El sobrelapamiento entre sexos para abundancia y volumen relativo fue alto a travs del ao. Sin embargo, el sobrelapamiento bajo de volumen relativo en la primavera indic variacin en dieta entre sexos. Tres de las ms comunes presas utilizadas a travs del ao variaron significativamente entre sexos en longitud, anchura, y volumen. Sin embargo, el volumen de las tres categoras alimentarias ms abundantes no estuvo correlacionado con la longitud hocico-cloaca de las lagartijas.
23028118|Within the Great Basin, diversity of shrews (Soricidae) generally is low. We present information on distribution and ecology of shrews from the Ruby Mountains of northeastern Nevada, an area that is exceptional in supporting six species. The assemblage includes two habitat generalists and four species that are more ecologically specialized, three of which are poorly known. The high species richness of shrews in the Ruby Mountains reflects the large area, the ecological complexity, and the geographic overlap of several species. Dentro de la Great Basin, la diversidad de las musaraas (Soricidae) es generalmente baja. Presentamos informacin de la distribucin y ecologa de musaraas en las montaas Ruby en el noreste de Nevada, un rea que es excepcional en cuanto a que alberga seis especies. El complejo incluye dos especies generalistas de uso de hbitats y cuatro especies que son ecolgicamente ms especializadas, tres de estas poco conocidas. La alta riqueza de especies de musaraas en las montaas Ruby refleja el rea grande, la complejidad ecolgica, y el traslapo geogrfico de varias especies.
23028119|This study examines effects of simulated echolocation calls of bats in a field setting on the flight activity and pheromone-tracking behavior of the male corn earworm moth, Helicoverpa zea (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), an insect that responds evasively to echolocation calls of bats. Simulated echolocation was broadcast over crop fields in an area where moths were abundant during summer. Field collections of free-flying moths and pheromone trapping of male moths were conducted in the presence and absence of simulated calls. Numbers of moths captured were not affected in either experiment by presence of simulated echolocation calls. Contrary to previous evidence, these data suggest that moths are not dissuaded from tracking pheromones under a perceived high risk of predation. Exhibiting a continual anti-predator response under a sustained risk of predation could have negative impacts on reproductive success, leading males to take higher risks compared to situations in which predators are sporadically present. Este estudio examina los efectos de las llamadas simuladas de ecolocalizacin de murcilagos en la actividad de vuelo y el comportamiento de rastreamiento de feromona en machos de la polilla del gusano elotero, Helicoverpa zea (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), un insecto que responde huyendo de las llamadas de ecolocalizacin de los murcilagos. Las llamadas simuladas de ecolocalizacin fueron transmitidas en los campos de cultivo en un rea donde las polillas eran abundantes durante el verano. La colecta de polillas volando y el trampeo de polillas machos usando feromonas como cebo se llev a cabo en presencia y ausencia de las llamadas simuladas. El nmero de polillas capturadas no se vio afectado en ninguno de los experimentos por la presencia de las llamadas de ecolocalizacin. Contrario a la evidencia previa, estos datos sugieren que las polillas no evitaron rastrear feromonas en presencia de un aparente elevado riesgo de depredacin. Exhibir una respuesta continua contra depredadores bajo el riesgo de depredacin continua podra tener efectos negativos en el xito reproductivo, llevando a los machos a tomar mayores riesgos en comparacin con situaciones en las que los depredadores estn presentes espordicamente.
23028120|Spawning behaviors of the Devils River minnow (Dionda diaboli) were observed in the Devils River, Val Verde County, Texas. Spawning in the wild was observed over active and inactive nests of centrarchids near openings of a spring. Nests consisted of cleaned gravel ca. 23 cm in maximum dimension. Males defended territories and occasionally spawned with receptive females over the nests. All behaviors observed in the laboratory were observed in wild fish and percentages of time that those behaviors were observed were similar. Los comportamientos del desove de la sardinita diabla (Dionda diaboli) fueron observados en el Devils River en el condado de Val Verde, Texas. El desove natural fue observado encima de nidos activos o inactivos de centrrquidos cerca de las aberturas de un manantial. Los nidos consistieron de casquijo limpiado y midieron 23 cm de dimetro. Los machos defendieron territorios y se aparearon ocasionalmente con hembras receptivas sobre los nidos. Todos los comportamientos observados en el laboratorio tambin fueron observados en la sardinita en la naturaleza y los porcentajes del tiempo dedicados a estos comportamientos fueron similares.
23028121|A male Brazilian free-tailed bat (Tadarida brasiliensis), collected from a colony in Huntsville, Walker County, Texas, had severe periodontal disease resulting in extensive loss of teeth. Although demonstrating normal activity and a healthy appearance, this individual had only eight teeth: normal complement is 3032 teeth. The remaining teeth appeared to be sufficient for this individual to adequately process food and maintain an average body weight as reported for this species. Un macho del murcilago cola suelta brasileo (Tadarida brasiliensis), obtenido de una colonia en Huntsville, condado de Walker en Texas, tuvo una enfermedad periodontal severa resultando en una extensa prdida de dientes. Aunque mostraba una actividad normal y una apariencia saludable, este individuo tena slo ocho dientes: el juego normal es de 3032 dientes. Los dientes restantes parecieron ser suficientes para que este individuo procesara adecuadamente los alimentos y mantuviera un promedio de peso corporal indicado para esta especie.
23028122|We observed an increase in observations of black-tailed jackrabbits (Lepus californicus) within stands of mixed-conifer forest treated with fire. Stands were assigned to four experimental treatments: control, prescribed-fire only, mechanical only, and mechanical plus fire. Observations were recorded by cameras in JulyAugust 20012003, with 2003 being the first post-treatment year. Three observations of black-tailed jackrabbits were recorded in 2001, four in 2002, and 37 in 2003. In 2003, 70% (26) and 16% (6) of observations were within the fire-only and mechanical-plus-fire treatments, respectively. A combination of increased openness of understory and overstory and new growth of forage may account for observed increases within burned stands. Observamos un aumento en avistamientos de liebre cola negra (Lepus californicus) dentro de lotes de bosque de conferas mezclados tratados con incendios. Los lotes fueron asignados a cuatro tratamientos experimentales: el control, slo fuego prescrito, slo manejo mecnico, y manejo mecnico ms fuego. Las observaciones fueron documentadas con cmaras de julio a agosto del 2001 2003, siendo el 2003 el primer ao de post-tratamiento. Tres observaciones de liebres cola negra fueron documentadas en el 2001, cuatro en el 2002, y 37 en el 2003. En el 2003, 70% (26) y 16% (6) de las observaciones estuvieron dentro de los tratamientos slo fuego y manejo mecnico ms fuego, respectivamente. Una combinacin de aumento de apertura del sotobosque y dosel y nuevo crecimiento de forraje puede ser la causa de los aumentos observados en lotes quemados.
23028123|We report for the first time aggregation behavior in the lizard Sceloporus minor. The behavior was recorded at Galeana, Nuevo Len, Mexico, where a group of ca. 30 individuals were observed under a rock associated with a stone wall. Weight, sex, snout-vent length, and total length were recorded for 22 individuals. Means of traits were: malesweight = 18.9 g, snout-vent length = 80.5 mm, total length = 173.3 mm; femalesweight = 13.9 g, snout-vent length = 72.9 mm, total length = 161.1 mm. Sex ratio was 16 males:6 females. Our observation extends the known elevational range of the species from ca. 3,000 m to 3,470 m. Reportamos por primera vez el comportamiento de agregacin en la lagartija Sceloporus minor. Este comportamiento fue registrado en Galeana, Nuevo Len, Mxico, donde un grupo de ca. 30 individuos fue observado debajo de una piedra pegada a una pared de piedra. Peso, sexo, longitud hocico-cloaca y longitud total fueron obtenidos de 22 individuos. Las medias fueron: machospeso = 18.9 g, longitud hocico-cloaca = 80.5 mm, longitud total = 173.3 mm; hembraspeso = 13.9 g, longitud hocico-cloaca = 72.9 mm, longitud total = 161.1 mm. La proporcin de sexos fue 16 machos:6 hembras. Nuestra observacin incrementa el rango altitudinal de la especie de 3,000 m a 3,470 m.
23028124|We evaluated the influence of environmental temperature and phenotype on thermoregulation by Sceloporus palaciosi, a diurnal iguanid lizard from high elevations in central Mexico. Range of body temperature was 1336C with a mean of 27.82  5.31C. Active lizards had a higher body temperature than inactive ones. After removal of state of activity from analysis, sexes did not differ in body temperature. Body temperature was significantly correlated with temperature of air and substrate in both active and inactive lizards. Evaluamos el efecto de la temperatura ambiental y los rasgos fenotpicos en la termorregulacin de Sceloporus palaciosi, una lagartija igunida diurna que habita altas elevaciones en el centro de Mxico. El rango de la temperatura corporal fue de 1336C con un promedio de 27.82  5.31C. Las lagartijas activas exhibieron una temperatura corporal ms elevada que las inactivas. Al remover de los anlisis el estado de actividad, no se encontraron diferencias entre la temperatura corporal de los sexos. La temperatura corporal mostr una correlacin significativa con respecto a la temperatura del aire y del sustrato tanto en lagartijas activas como inactivas.
23028125|We investigated the influence of sex and depth of body on escapes from hoop nets by redeared sliders (Trachemys scripta) to assess if escapes from traps potentially biased estimates of structure of populations. Turtles remained in traps 34 h and traps were checked at ca. 12-h intervals. Depth of body was not a significant variable in escapes from hoop nets, but sex was a significant variable, with only females escaping. This study provides evidence that previous reports on the inefficiency of hoop nets and on rates of captures that are male-biased could result from escapes rather than differential attraction to traps. Investigamos la influencia del sexo y profundidad del cuerpo en los escapes por las tortugas de orejas rojas (Trachemys scripta) de trampas de aros para evaluar si los escapes de trampas podran sesgar las estimaciones de la estructura de poblaciones. Las tortugas permanecieron en trampas 34 horas, y fueron revisadas en intervalos de cerca a 12 horas. La profundidad del cuerpo no fue una variable significativa en escapes de las trampas, pero el sexo s fue una variable significativa con slo las hembras escapando. Este estudio proporciona evidencia de que los informes anteriores sobre la ineficiencia de trampas de aro y de las tasas de captura a favor de los machos podran resultar de escapes en lugar de atraccin desproporcional a las trampas.
23028126|The diploid, parthenogenetic, whiptail lizard Aspidoscelis tesselata is represented by two distinctive variants of color pattern in southeastern Colorado. Pattern-class C has been recorded from several sites in the canyonlands of Otero, Las Animas, and Baca counties and D has been recorded from four sites north of the Purgatoire River near Higbee, Otero County. We report a specimen of A. tesselata D collected in 2008 south of the Purgatoire River in Las Animas County, which represents a significant range extension for this distinctive parthenogen. La lagartija diploide y partenogentica Aspidoscelis tesselata es representada por dos variantes distintas de patrones de coloracin en el sureste del Colorado. La clase del patrn C ha sido registrada en varios sitios en el rea de caones de los condados de Otero, Las Animas y Baca, y el patrn D ha sido registrado en cuatro sitios al norte del ro Purgatorio cerca de Higbee, condado de Otero. Reportamos un espcimen de A. tesselata perteneciente al patrn D recolectado en el ao 2008 al sur del ro Purgatorio en el condado de Las Animas, l cual representa una extensin significativa de su distribucin para esta distinta especie partenogentica.
23028127|I collected larvae of Eutrombicula alfreddugesi for the first time parasitizing Gerrhonotus infernalis, Sceloporus poinsetti, S. jarrovii, and S. grammicus as new host records for Coahuila, Mexico. Lizards were collected in the submontane scrub of the Sierra de Jimulco, Coahuila, Mexico. In G. infernalis, there was a large number of mites in small groups, primarily along the flanks protected by the granular fold. All species of Sceloporus had mites in the neck region grouped behind the eardrums and protected by lateral gular folds. Type of vegetation and available substrates in this part of the Sierra de Jimulco create microhabitats that can support this mite. Registr por primera vez larvas de Eutrombicula alfreddugesi parasitando a Gerrhonotus infernalis, Sceloporus poinsetti, S. jarrovii y S. grammicus como nuevos registros de hospederos para el estado de Coahuila, Mxico. Las lagartijas fueron colectadas en el matorral submontaoso de la Sierra de Jimulco, Coahuila, Mxico. En G. infernalis se registr una gran cantidad de caros en pequeas agrupaciones, principalmente a lo largo de los flancos protegidos por el pliegue granular. Todas las especies de Sceloporus portaban caros en la regin del cuello, agrupados detrs de los tmpanos y protegidos por los pliegues gulares laterales. El tipo de vegetacin y los sustratos disponibles en esta parte de la Sierra de Jimulco crean microhbitats que pueden favorecer la presencia de este caro.
23028159|Abronia macrocarpa is endemic to Texas and it is listed as endangered by federal and state agencies, but it is believed to have a high potential for recovery. Reintroduction is a potential option for recovery of this species and this could be accomplished using seeds planted in the field or transplanting individuals produced ex situ from seeds. We used a split-plot design to determine the percentage of seeds germinating in the field and to test effects of planting seeds in spring versus autumn. Season of planting significantly influenced percentage of germination. Seeds planted in spring (April 2005) exhibited 27.8% germination, while germination of seeds planted in autumn (November 2005) was only 0.8%. We also investigated the induction of seed germination in the laboratory. Difference in germination was 0-68.6% between the control and treatments. Combining scarification then warm stratification followed by cold stratification resulted in significantly higher germination than other treatments. Abronia macrocarpa es una especie endmica de Texas y es considerada como en peligro de extincin a nivel federal y estatal, sin embargo se cree que tiene un gran potencial para recuperacin. Una de las posibilidades para la recuperacin de esta especie es la reintroduccin, la cual puede llevarse a cabo usando semillas plantadas en el campo o transplantando individuos producidos ex-situ de semillas. Utilizamos un diseo de lote partido para determinar el porcentaje de semillas germinadas en el campo y para investigar los efectos de siembra en la primavera versus el otoo. La temporada de sembrado influyo significativamente la germinacin; las semillas plantadas en la primavera (abril del 2005) tuvieron el 27.8% de germinacin, en tanto que slo germin el 0.8% de las plantadas en el otoo (noviembre del 2005). Tambin se investig la induccin de la germinacin en el laboratorio. La diferencia fue de 0-68.6% entre los controles y los tratamientos. Se encontr que la escarificacin ms la subsecuente estratificacin clida seguida por la estratificacin fra produjo una germinacin significativamente mayor que otros tratamientos.
23028160|Although most cacti that have been studied are long lived, following individually marked plants in Boulder County, Colorado, for >7 years, we determined that average life span of Opuntia macrorhiza, the western prickly pear, is 3 years. A few individuals probably live >10 years. Vegetative reproduction, produced by rooting of cladodes, exceeded reproduction by germination and establishment from seeds. Both types of new recruits, from vegetative reproduction and seeds, had higher death rates than established plants. Size and frequency of flowering increased with age, although size both increased and decreased, sometimes dramatically, between years. Flowering correlated more strongly with size than with age. Estimates of population growth indicated these populations were stable ( = 1.02). Elasticities suggest that the population was most sensitive to survival of smaller plants. Si bien la mayora de los cactus estudiados son perennes, luego del seguimiento por ms de 7 aos de plantas marcadas individualmente en el condado de Boulder en Colorado, encontramos que el promedio de vida de plantas de Opuntia macrorhiza, el nopal raizudo, es de 3 aos. Pocos individuos probablemente viven ms de 10 aos. La multiplicacin vegetativa a travs del enraizamiento de cldodes excedi a la reproduccin por germinacin y establecimiento a partir de semillas. Ambos tipos de nuevos reclutas, sean provenientes de multiplicacin vegetativa o de semillas, evidenciaron mayores tasas de mortandad que las plantas ya establecidas. El tamao y frecuencia de floracin aumentaron con la edad, pero el tamao de plantas aument y decreci, a veces notablemente, entre aos. La floracin se correlacion ms fuertemente con tamao que con edad. Las estimaciones de crecimiento poblacional indicaron que estas poblaciones fueron estables ( = 1.02). Las elasticidades sugieren que la poblacin fue ms sensible a la supervivencia de las plantas ms pequeas.
23028161|Abundance of seedlings of functional groups (woody plants, grasses, and forbs) was measured monthly for 2 years under 10 replicates of three nurse plants (Caesalpinia mexicana, Cordia boissieri, and Ebenopsis ebano) at 90, 350, 540, and 670 m above sea level in northeastern Mexico. Across elevations, there were more forbs than grasses and more grasses than woody plants. Grasses and forbs were denser in spring, summer, and autumn than in winter; greatest abundance of seedlings from woody plants occurred during summer and autumn. Abundance of seedlings across elevations was greater under E. ebano and C. boissieri than under C. mexicana. For all species and for functional groups separately, abundance of seedlings was greater at higher elevations than at lower elevations. La abundancia de plntulas de grupos funcionales (leosas, gramneas y otras herbceas) se midi mensualmente durante dos aos con diez repeticiones de tres plantas nodriza (Caesalpinia mexicana, Cordia boissieri, y Ebenopsis ebano) a 90, 350, 540, y 670 m sobre el nivel del mar en el noreste de Mxico. De manera constante entre elevaciones, hubo ms herbceas que gramneas y menos leosas. Las herbceas y gramneas tuvieron mayor densidad en la primavera, el verano y el otoo que en el invierno; las leosas tuvieron su mayor abundancia en el verano y el otoo. La abundancia de plntulas en todas las elevaciones fue mayor bajo E. ebano y C. boissieri que bajo C. mexicana. Para todas las especies y para los grupos funcionales por separado, la abundancia de plntulas fue superior en las elevaciones ms altas que en las ms bajas.
23028162|We determined that Eupatorium petiolare was either wind pollinated or self-fertilized, that Tagetes lunulata and Verbesina virgata showed autonomous self-fertilization, that Dahlia coccinea seems to be self-incompatible and pollinated by diurnal insects, and that, although overall longevity of capitula of V. virgata was greater in shaded sites, production of fruit per capitulum was greater in sunny sites. Overall longevity of capitula and longevity of capitula in the mature-flower stage showed great variability among species; overall longevity of capitula was longer for those species flowering during the rainy season and longevity of the mature-flower phenophase was shorter for D. coccinea (the only species dependent upon vectors for its pollination). High density of flowers, few barriers to dispersal of pollen (low arboreal coverage), and increased photosynthetic radiation typical of sunny sites seem to favor transfer of pollen, resulting in higher pollination and fruiting success than that experienced by plants in shaded sites. Se encontr que Eupatorium petiolare es polinizada por viento o se auto-fertiliza, que Tagetes lunulata y Verbesina virgata presentan auto-fertilizacin autnoma, y que Dahlia coccinea parece ser auto-incompatible y polinizada por insectos diurnos. La longevidad total de los captulos de V. virgata fue mayor en sitios sombreados, pero la produccin de frutos por captulo fue mayor en sitios abiertos. La longevidad total de los captulos y la de los captulos en estadio de flor madura mostraron gran variabilidad entre especies: la longevidad total del captulo fue mayor para las especies que florecen en la temporada de lluvias y la longevidad del estadio de flor madura fue ms corta para D. coccinea (la nica especie que mostr dependencia de los vectores de polen para producir semillas). Caractersticas de los sitios abiertos, como gran densidad floral, pocas barreras de dispersin de polen (poca cobertura arbrea) y elevados niveles de radiacin fotosinttica parecen favorecer la transferencia de polen, produciendo mayores tasas de polinizacin y produccin de frutos que las de plantas en sitios sombreados.
23028163|We studied a population of Plethodon albagula inhabiting an abandoned mine in Garland County, Arkansas, to test whether variables such as fecundity, diameter of egg, total number of eggs produced, and total number of clutches were influenced by precipitation or prescribed burning. We also compared ratios of juveniles to adults during summer, a period when P. albagula sought refuge in the mine, to determine if prescribed burning influenced certain life stages more than others. Comparing years before and after burning and accounting for the influence of precipitation, we did not detect a significant effect of the prescribed burn on any reproductive variable. However, we did discover a decline in some reproductive variables 1.5 years post-burning. There also was no decline in the ratio of juveniles to adults before or after the burn. Prescribed burning in the inactive season did not affect reproduction or age composition of the population of P. albagula. Estudiamos una poblacin de Plethodon albagula que ocupa una mina abandonada en el condado de Garland, Arkansas, para probar si variables como la fecundidad, el dimetro del huevo, el nmero total de huevos producidos, y el nmero total de puestas fueron influenciados por la precipitacin o por la quema prescrita. Tambin comparamos las proporciones de jvenes a adultos durante el verano, un perodo cuando P. albagula busca refugio en la mina, para determinar si la quema prescrita afecta a ciertas etapas de la vida ms que a otras. Comparando los aos antes de y despus de la quema, y teniendo en cuenta la influencia de la precipitacin, no encontramos un efecto significativo de la quema prescrita en ninguna variable reproductiva. Sin embargo, encontramos que algunas variables reproductivas disminuyeron 1.5 aos despus de la quema. Tampoco hubo ninguna declinacin de la proporcin de jvenes a adultos antes o despus de la quema. La quema prescrita durante la estacin inactiva no afect la reproduccin ni la composicin de edades de la poblacin de P. albagula.
23028164|Parthenogenetic Aspidoscelis tesselata (pattern class C) reaches the northern limit of its distribution in Ninemile Valley, Otero County, Colorado. Its coexistence with gonochoristic A. sexlineata permitted comparison of diets between species of different sizes, reproductive modes, and evolutionary histories. Based on numbers of prey in stomachs, A. sexlineata had a broader diet than A. tesselata C in June and July; however, breadth of diets calculated from volumes of prey were nearly the same for the two species. Despite the larger size of A. tesselata C, dietary resources were not partitioned by size and foods present exclusively in one species were rare in its diet. Overlap of diets in June could be explained by chance, but this was not true for July. remarkably high dietary overlap in July resulted from both species taking advantage of an annual surge in abundance of grasshoppers. There was no evidence that either species was affected adversely by presence of the other. La lagartija partenogentica Aspidoscelis tesselata (clase de patrn C) alcanza el lmite norte de su distribucin en Ninemile Valley, condado de Otero, Colorado. Su coexistencia con la lagartija de reproduccin sexual A. sexlineata nos permiti comparar la dieta entre especies de diferentes tamaos corporales, modos de reproduccin e historias evolutivas. Basndonos en el conteo de presas en estmagos, A. sexlineata tuvo una dieta ms amplia que A. tesselata C en junio y julio; sin embargo, las amplitudes de dieta calculadas a partir de volmenes de presas fueron casi iguales para las dos especies de lagartijas. A pesar del mayor tamao corporal de A. tesselata C, los recursos alimenticios no estuvieron repartidos por tamao, y las presas encontradas exclusivamente en una especie fueron raras en su dieta. La sobreposicin de dietas en junio podra ser explicada por azar, pero esto no fue el caso para julio. La sumamente alta sobreposicin de dietas en julio fue el resultado de que ambas especies se aprovecharon del surgimiento anual de chapulines abundantes. No hubo evidencia de que una de estas especies se haya visto adversamente afectada por la presencia de la otra especie.
23028165|We investigated diet of cougars (Puma concolor) in the eastern Sierra Nevada, California, following a decline in the population of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus). Mule deer declined 84% from 1985 to 1991, a period concurrent with declines in bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis sierrae, an endangered taxon). An index to numbers of cougars lagged behind those declines, with a reduction of ca. 50% during 19921996. We determined diet of cougars by analysis of fecal samples collected during 19911995, when the population of mule deer was <25% of its former size. Mule deer was in 79% of 178 feces in winter and 58% of 74 feces in summer. Although most (69%) fecal samples in winter were <5 km from, or within (25%) winter range of bighorn sheep, none contained evidence of bighorn sheep. One fecal sample in summer contained remains of bighorn sheep, indicating that those ungulates were not an important component of the diet during our investigation. Investigamos la dieta del puma (Puma concolor) en la parte este de la Sierra Nevada en California despus de una disminucin en la poblacin del venado bura (Odocoileus hemionus). El venado bura disminuy 84% desde 1985 hasta 1991, una poca simultnea con disminucin en las poblaciones del borrego cimarrn (Ovis canadensis sierrae, un taxn en vas de extincin). Un ndice de nmeros de pumas se qued atrs de esas disminuciones, con una reduccin de aproximadamente 50% durante los aos de 19921996. Determinamos la dieta del puma con un anlisis de muestras fecales que colectamos durante los aos de 19911995, cuando la poblacin del venado bura fue menos que 25% de su tamao anterior. Restos del venado bura se encontraron en 79% de las 178 muestras fecales en el invierno y en 58% de las 74 muestras fecales en el verano. Aunque ms muestras fecales (69%) que colectamos en el invierno estuvieron localizadas <5 km de o dentro de (25%) la distribucin invernal de los borregos cimarrones, ninguna contuvo evidencia de borrego cimarrn. Una muestra fecal en el verano tuvo restos de borrego cimarrn, lo que indica que esos ungulados no fueron un componente importante de la dieta del puma durante nuestra investigacin.
23028166|In ponderosa pine-Gambel oak (Pinus ponderosa-Quercus gambelii) forests of north-central Arizona, we examined occupancy and habitats of four species of sciurids (rock squirrel Spermophilus variegatus, golden-mantled ground squirrel S. lateralis, gray-collared chipmunk Tamias cinereicollis, cliff chipmunk T. dorsalis). Numbers of captures were highly variable, suggesting a patchy distribution of species. All four species co-occurred on only one of the study sites. Gray-collared chipmunks and golden-mantled ground squirrels were relatively common on one site only. Golden-mantled ground squirrels were associated with mature forests with high canopy cover and low basal area, whereas graycollared chipmunks were in locations with large numbers of logs and shallow litter. The two species of chipmunks appeared to be separated in space; gray-collared chipmunks were more common where cliff chipmunks were least common. Rock squirrels were relatively ubiquitous. There was evidence for an association of rock squirrels with increasing rocky cover and decreasing canopy cover, whereas cliff chipmunks occupied rocky areas with high canopy cover and numerous shrubs. En bosques de pino ponderosa-encino Gambel (Pinus ponderosa-Quercus gambelii) en la parte centro-norte de Arizona, examinamos ocupacin y hbitat de cuatro especies de sciridosardilla de roca (Spermophilus variegatus), ardilla de manto dorado (S. lateralis), ardilla de pata anillada (Tamias cinereicollis) y ardilla rayada de barranca (T. dorsalis). Las tasas de captura fueron altamente variables, lo que sugiere que estas especies se distribuyen en parches. Las cuatro especies cohabitaron en slo uno de los sitios de estudio. Las ardillas de pata anillada y las ardillas de manto dorado fueron relativamente comunes en slo uno de los sitios. Las ardillas de manto dorado se encontraron asociadas con bosques maduros con alta cobertura de dosel y reas basales bajas, mientras que las ardillas de pata anillada estuvieron en sitios con abundancia de troncos cados y poca hojarasca. Las dos especies de ardillas del gnero Tamias presentaron separacin espacial; la ardilla de pata anillada fue ms comn en los sitios en los que la ardilla rayada de barranca fue menos comn. Las ardillas rayadas de barranca se encontraron ubicuamente. Hubo evidencia que sugiere una asociacin entre las ardillas de roca en sitios con mayor cobertura de rocas y menor cobertura de dosel, mientras que las ardillas rayadas de barranco ocuparon sitios rocosos con un alto porcentaje de cobertura de dosel y abundancia de arbustos.
23028167|Using mist-netting and observational surveys in southeastern Arizona, we documented use of habitat by 12 species of birds that migrate to this Mexican monsoon region to molt. During the drier monsoon season in 2007, higher proportions of molt-migrants congregated at riparian areas. During the wetter monsoon season in 2008, a wider range of habitats was used. Molt-migrants generally selected habitats similar to those of their breeding territories; however, in some cases, species appeared to shift habitats for molt, in response to environmental effects. For example, high use of grasslands by molting Lucy's warblers (Oreothlypis luciae) in 2007 and by lazuli buntings (Passerina amoena) and lesser goldfinches (Carduelis psaltria) in 2008 suggests variable responses to relative strength of the monsoon season. Our results underscore the need to conserve native grasslands and riparian areas; habitats in which we detected molt-migrants most frequently. Our results also indicate the need to conserve a mosaic of habitats to account for adaptive selection in response to variable environmental conditions. Usando redes de niebla y muestreos observacionales en el sudeste de Arizona, documentamos el uso de hbitat de 12 especies de aves en inmigracin de muda a esta regin del monzn Mexicano. Durante la temporada ms seca del monzn en el 2007, proporciones mayores de inmigrantes de muda se agruparon en reas riparias, mientras que una seleccin de hbitat ms amplia fue observada durante la temporada ms lluviosa del 2008. Los inmigrantes de muda generalmente seleccionaron hbitats similares a los de sus territorios de apareamiento; sin embargo, en algunos casos las especies parecan cambiar hbitats para la muda, en respuesta a efectos ambientales, o consecuencia de las dos causas. Por ejemplo, un alto uso de hbitat de pastizal por el chipe rabadilla rufa (Oreothlypis luciae) mudndose en el 2007, y por el colorn lzuli (Passerina amoena) y el jilguero dominico (Carduelis psaltria) en el 2008, sugiere respuestas variables a la fuerza relativa de la temporada del monzn. Nuestros resultados subrayan la necesidad de conservar los pastizales nativos y las reas riparias, hbitats en los cuales detectamos inmigrantes de muda ms frecuentemente. Nuestros resultados tambin indican la necesidad de conservar un mosaico de hbitats, considerando la capacidad adaptativa de seleccionar hbitats a respuesta a las condiciones ambientales variables.
23028168|During 2005 and 2007, we examined status of populations of the American crocodile (Crocodylus acutus) in three rivers at El Cajon Reservoir in central Honduras. Number of crocodiles per kilometer of survey varied by river and time of study. Most observations were of hatchlings and yearlings, but juveniles, subadults, and adults also were observed. Sex ratio in the reservoir was 1:1.4 male:female. Assuming that sex ratio and size-class structure were representative of the overall population, our study suggests that the population in El Cajon Reservoir is stable. Durante 2005 y 2007, examinamos el estado poblacional de Crocodylus acutus en los tres ros que conforman el embalse El Cajn, en la parte central de Honduras. El nmero de cocodrilos observados por km recorrido vari entre ros y perodos de estudio. La mayora de los cocodrilos observados fueron cras y reclutas, pero juveniles, subadultos y adultos tambin fueron observados. La proporcin de sexos en general para todo el embalse fue de 1:1.4 macho:hembra. Suponiendo que la proporcin de sexos y la estructura poblacional observadas son representativa de la poblacin presente, nuestros resultados sugieren que la poblacin de C. acutus en el embalse El Cajn es estable.
23028169|Our objectives were to determine which habitat variables had the greatest influence on densities of the Three Forks springsnail (Pyrgulopsis trivialis) and pond snail (Physa gyrina), and to examine interactions between the two species. We measured density and several habitat variables in Three Forks Springs and Boneyard Bog Springs in east-central Arizona. Density of Three Forks springsnails was greatest (500/m) in shallow water (<5.6 cm), where density of pond snails was less (<4.6/m), and closer to the springhead (<0.8 m). Density of pond snails was greatest (66/m) further away from the springhead (32 m) and when temperatures were greater (15.8C). Density of pond snails was low (1.1/m) closer to the springhead (<32 m) when pH was less (<8.4). The two snails apparently partition habitat in response to competition for food or presence of predators. Nuestros objetivos fueron determinar que variables del hbitat tuvieron la mayor influencia en la densidad del caracol Pyrgulopsis trivialis y del caracol Physa gyrina, y examinar la interaccin entre las dos especies. Medimos la densidad de los caracoles y varias variables del hbitat en el manantial de Three Forks y en el manantial de Boneyard Bog en el centro-este de Arizona. La densidad de P. trivialis fue mayor (500/m) en agua somera (<5.6 cm), donde la densidad de P. gyrina fue menor (<4.6/m), y ms cerca del ojo de agua (<0.8 m). La densidad de P. gyrina fue mayor (66/m) mientras ms lejos del ojo de agua (32 m) y cuando las temperaturas fueron mayores (15.8C). La densidad de P. gyrina fue menor (1.1/m) ms cerca del ojo de agua (<32 m) y cuando el pH fue menor (<8.4). Parece que los dos caracoles pueden separar sus hbitats en respuesta a la competencia por el alimento o a la presencia de depredadores.
23028170|We examined whether chronic exposure of traps to disinfectant reduced trappability of rodents as compared to new traps. We tested whether rodents initially chose between treated (disinfected) and new traps and if total number of captures differed between these treatments. Disinfectant did not reduce catchability of traps; rodents actually preferred treated traps. In initial pairwise choice tests, rodents overall and the predominant North American deermouse, Peromyscus maniculatus, chose significantly more treated than new traps, although this difference disappeared as time of exposure of new traps in the environment increased. Total captures of small mammals and North American deermice did not differ between treated and new traps. Therefore, treated traps were never avoided; this has important implications in general, but especially for long-term studies where censuses are conducted using pre-disinfectant and post-disinfectant protocols. Investigamos si la exposicin crnica de las trampas al desinfectante redujo la probabilidad de atrapar a roedores en comparacin a trampas nuevas. Hicimos pruebas para ver si los roedores inicialmente escogieron entre las trampas tratadas (desinfectadas) o las nuevas y si el nmero total de capturas difiri en cuanto a los dos tipos de trampas. El desinfectante no redujo la eficacia de las trampas y, en realidad, los roedores prefirieron las trampas desinfectadas. En pruebas iniciales en que seleccionaron una trampa u otra, los roedores en general, y la especie predominante, Peromyscus maniculatus, escogieron significativamente ms trampas tratadas que las nuevas, aunque esta diferencia desapareci cuando aument el tiempo de estar expuestas las trampas nuevas al medio ambiente del campo. Entre las trampas tratadas y las nuevas no hubo diferencia en el nmero de capturas ni de mamferos pequeos ni de P. maniculatus. As que los roedores no evitaron las trampas desinfectadas. Esto tiene implicaciones importantes en general, pero especialmente para investigaciones a largo plazo en que muestreos se llevan a cabo usando protocolos de pre-desinfectantes tanto como post-desinfectantes.
23028171|During 20032005, I surveyed 82 sites on the North and South rims of Grand Canyon, Coconino County, Arizona, to test effectiveness of four non-invasive techniques for detecting carnivores and to assess patterns of co-occurrence among pairs of species. Techniques were not equally effective for detecting carnivores. Searches of transects for feces, tracks, and other evidence yielded the greatest number of detections; remotely triggered cameras and track plates had the greatest probabilities of detecting common species and also produced detections of smaller and rarer carnivores; and hair traps generally were ineffective. Even after accounting for variation in probabilities of use of habitats by species due to characteristics of sites, two pairs of carnivores had limited co-occurrence. Coyotes (Canis latrans) and bobcats (Lynx rufus) did not co-occur at sites on the North Rim, and coyotes and gray foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) co-occurred less than one-half as frequently as expected in the South Rim. Entre 2003 y 2005, muestre 82 sitios en los bordes norte y sur del Gran Canyon, condado de Coconino, Arizona, para probar la eficacia de cuatro tcnicas no-invasivas para detectar carnvoros mamferos, y evaluar los patrones de coocurrencia entre pares de especies. Las tcnicas no fueron igualmente efectivas para detectar carnvoros. Bsquedas de transectos para excrementos, huellas y otra evidencia produjeron el nmero mayor de detecciones; cmaras de disparador-remoto y superficies preparadas para registrar huellas tuvieron la mayor probabilidad de deteccin de especies comunes y tambin produjeron detecciones de carnvoros pequeos y raros; y trampas de pelo generalmente fueron inefectivas. An despus de tener en cuenta la variacin en la probabilidad del uso de hbitat de especies debido a caractersticas del sitio, dos pares de carnvoros tuvieron coocurrencias limitadas. Coyotes (Canis latrans) y gatos monts (Lynx rufus) no coocurrieron en sitios en el borde norte, y coyotes y zorros grises (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) coocurrieron con frecuencia menos de la mitad de lo esperado en el borde sur.
23028172|Small mammals were captured at Swan Lake National Wildlife Refuge, Chariton County, Missouri, using Sherman live traps and Museum Special kill traps in five habitats. Trapping generated 1,078 captures representing 10 species in 6,400 trap nights. Museum Specials captured significantly more small mammals than Sherman live traps. Both types of traps were equally likely to capture males and females and there was no difference in captures among habitats. Significantly more western harvest mice (Reithrodontomys megalotis) and house mice (Mus musculus) were captured in Museum Specials than in Sherman live traps. Museum Specials were sprung-but-empty significantly more often than Sherman live traps. Se capturaron mamferos pequeos en Swan Lake National Wildlife Refuge, condado de Chariton, Missouri, en cinco hbitats por medio de trampas de tipo Sherman que no matan y trampas de tipo Museum Special que matan. El trampeo gener 1,078 capturas representando 10 especies en 6,400 trampas-noches. Las trampas Museum Special capturaron significativamente ms mamferos pequeos que las trampas Sherman. Ambos tipos de trampas tuvieron igual probabilidad en capturar machos y hembras y no hubo ninguna diferencia en capturas entre los hbitats. Las trampas Museum Special capturaron significativamente ms ratones occidentales de la cosecha (Reithrodontomys megalotis) y ratones de casa (Mus musculus) que las trampas Sherman. Las trampas Museum Special fueron encontradas arrojadas pero vacas significativamente ms frecuentemente que las trampas Sherman.
23028173|During two studies of mortality in fawns of desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) in Crockett County, Texas, and Gila County, Arizona, we recorded rates of retention and problems with vaginal-implant transmitters (VITs). Our objectives were to determine if rates of retention differed between studies, years, timing of insertions, and width of wing of VITs. In Texas, VITs with wings 6.75cm wide were shed successfully at parturition 7377% of the time, whereas in Arizona, VITs were shed successfully 43% of the time. Additionally, in Arizona, VITs with 8.20-cm-wide wings were shed successfully 91% of the time. Our data suggested that optimal length of wings of VITs for mule deer may be dependent on locale. When designing a study using VITs, researchers should use the largest wing possible to ensure high rates of retention without physically harming deer. Reportamos tasas de retencin y problemas con transmisores vaginales implantados (TVI) en el venado bura del desierto (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) durante dos estudios de mortandad de cras en el condado de Crockett, Texas, y en el condado de Gila, Arizona. Nuestros objetivos fueron determinar si las tasas de retencin difirieron entre estudios, aos, pocas de implantacin, y ancho de las alas del TVI. En Texas, los TVI con alas de 6.75 cm se expulsaron con xito durante el parto en el 73 77% de los casos, mientras que en Arizona, los TVI se expulsaron con xito en el 43% de los casos. Adicionalmente, los TVI con alas de 8.20 cm se expulsaron con xito en el 91% de los casos en Arizona. Nuestros datos sugirieron que el ancho ptimo de las alas de los TVI para el venado bura puede depender de la localidad. Al utilizar los TVI en estudios, los investigadores deben usar el mayor ancho de alas posible para asegurar una alta tasa de retencin sin ocasionar daos fsicos al animal.
23028174|We examined spatial extent of habitat that anaxyrids responded to in an arid environment. We used surveys of vocalizations and searches to identify toads after rainfall events to examine whether the spatial arrangement and proximity of earthen tanks could influence breeding populations of Anaxyrus cognatus and A. debilis. These species responded to the landscape complement of breeding sites inside a buffer of 5 km, a much larger distance than most studies have addressed. Examinamos el grado espacial al que los anaxyridos responden al hbitat en un ambiente rido. Se muestrearon las vocalizaciones e hicimos bsquedas para identificar sapos despus de lluvias para examinar si el patrn espacial y la proximidad de los tanques de agua de fondo de tierra pueden influir en las poblaciones reproductoras de Anaxyrus cognatus y A. debilis. Estas especies respondieron a la escala del paisaje dentro de una franja de 5 km de los sitios de reproduccin, una distancia mucho mayor que la mayora de los estudios ha enfocado.
23028175|We describe the migratory pattern of black terns (Chlidonias niger) in the Ojo de Liebre-Guerrero Negro coastal-lagoon complex and Guerrero Negro saltworks on the Pacific coast of Baja California Sur, Mexico. Most black terns (97% of total) were seen JulyOctober, with 6,700 birds being the highest count per month (September). During spring, this species was observed only in April (220 individuals). We recorded 90% of black terns in the southeastern portion of Ojo de Liebre Lagoon, where they were in artificial (saltworks) and natural habitats (marsh and sandy shallows). In late summer (JulyAugust), 94% were in the lagoon, by contrast, in autumn we recorded 96% in saltworks. Overall, black terns are a common transient in Guerrero Negro during summer and autumn and uncommon during spring. Black terns use these artificial and natural habitats as stopover areas during migration. Describimos los patrones migratorios del charrn negro (Chlidonias niger) en el Complejo Lagunar Ojo de Liebre-Guerrero Negro y en la salina adyacente, ubicados en la costa pacfico de Baja California Sur, Mxico. Observamos las mayores abundancias (97%) entre julio-octubre con 6,700 aves como mximo por mes (septiembre). Durante la primavera esta especie se observ slo en abril y en nmeros menores (220 individuos). El 90% de los registros se realizaron en la porcin sureste de la Laguna Ojo de Liebre, que incluye ambiente artificial (salina) y natural (marisma y planicie arenosa). A fines de verano (julio-agosto), observamos el 94% de las aves en la laguna, mientras que en otoo registramos el 96% de las aves en la salina. Los resultados generales indican que el charrn negro es un transente comn en Guerrero Negro durante el verano y el otoo y poco comn en la primavera. El charrn negro utiliza los dos hbitats, naturales y artificiales, como sitios de paso en su migracin.
23028176|Pleistocene and Holocene fossils of the yellow-nosed cotton rat (Sigmodon ochrognathus) in New Mexico, Trans-Pecos Texas, and southern Chihuahua indicate past presence within the currently occupied geographic range, as well as occurrences at lower-elevation sites. Suggestions that post-Pleistocene colonization may account for occurrence of northern isolated populations cannot be falsified because extirpation followed by recolonization cannot be ruled out; however, current data indicate that such a scenario is unnecessary. Los fsiles del Pleistoceno y Holoceno de la rata algodonera nariz amarilla (Sigmodon ochrognathus) en Nuevo Mxico, Trans-Pecos de Texas, y el sur de Chihuahua, indican su presencia en el pasado dentro de su distribucin geogrfica actual, adems de su presencia en sitios de menor elevacin. Sugerencias de que la colonizacin post-pleistoceno podra explicar la presencia de poblaciones norteas aisladas no pueden ser falsificadas, ya que la extirpacin seguida por la recolonizacin no puede ser descartada; sin embargo, datos recientes indican que tal escenario no es necesario.
23028177|I tested effects of infection by the parasitic larval nematode Eustrongylides ignotus on reproduction in the livebearing western mosquitofish Gambusia affinis. Generally, parasitized females had fewer developing broods than nonparasitized females. Parasitic nematodes significantly reduced fecundity in the western mosquitofish. Prob efectos de infeccin causados por la larva del nemtodo Eustrongylides ignotus en la reproduccin del pez vivparo Gambusia affinis. En general, las hembras con parsitos tuvieron menos camadas de cras desarrollndose que las hembras sin parsitos. Los parsitos nemtodos redujeron significativamente la fecundidad en G. affinis.
23028178|The occurrence and distribution of Hemidactylus frenatus (common house gecko) in Mexico is known from dozens of miscellaneous notes, regional accounts, and unpublished records in museums that span >100 years. This information is gathered here, summarized, and mapped to document current distribution of the species in Mexico. A chronology of collections offers an indication of its dispersal there. La presencia y distribucin de Hemidactylus frenatus (lagartija besucona) en Mxico se conoce a travs de docenas de notas variadas, relatos regionales, y registros no publicados en museos, que abarcan >100 aos. Dicha informacin fue colectada, resumida y mapeada para documentar la distribucin actual de la especie en Mxico. El registro cronolgico de las colecciones es un indicativo de su dispersin all.
23028179|In 1995, we caught three Texas antelope squirrels (Ammospermophilus interpres) at two sites near Brackettville, Kinney County, Texas. One was captured in a habitat atypical for the species. This is the easternmost record and first record of the species in Kinney County. En 1995, se capturaron tres ardillas antlope texanas (Ammospermophilus interpres) en dos sitios cerca del pueblo de Brackettville, condado de Kinney, Texas. Un espcimen se captur en un hbitat atpico para A. interpres. Estos especmenes representan el registro ms oriental de esta especie y la primera documentacin de la especie en el condado de Kinney.
23028180|We collected a Dirhinus texanus (Hymenoptera: Chalcididae) in Salt Creek Canyon, Canyonlands National Park, San Juan County, Utah. This is the first record for D. texanus in Utah. Colectamos un ejemplar de Dirhinus texanus (Hymenoptera: Chalcididae) en Salt Creek Canyon, Canyonlands National Park, condado de San Juan, Utah. Este es el primer registro de D. texanus en Utah.
23028181|To appraise conservation status of the Yaqui catfish Ictalurus pricei, we reviewed literature and unpublished records on a captive stock, examined voucher specimens at museums, re-sampled historical localities in the Yaqui, Mayo, and Fuerte river basins, and we surveyed rivers further south. A total of 72 specimens of native Ictalurus was collected in the Yaqui, Fuerte, Sinaloa, Culiacn, and San Lorenzo river basins. No native Ictalurus was collected in the Mayo Basin. Distribution of the Yaqui catfish appears restricted to the Yaqui, Mayo and Fuerte river basins, all of which now harbor nonnative blue (I. furcatus) and channel (I. punctatus) catfishes. The nonnative black bullhead (Ameiurus melas) is now known from the Yaqui Basin and the flathead catfish (Pylodictis olivaris) has been recorded anecdotally in the Yaqui Basin. Threats to the Yaqui catfish have increased in recent years and hybridization with the channel catfish now appears widespread. We conclude that the Yaqui catfish should be considered endangered throughout its range and that status of native populations of Ictalurus in the United States and Mexico should be reviewed and management intensified. Para evaluar el estatus de conservacin del bagre de Yaqui Ictalurus pricei, revisamos la literatura y registros no publicados de una lnea cautiva, examinamos ejemplares de referencia de museos, muestreamos nuevamente las localidades histricas en las cuencas de los ros Yaqui, Mayo, y Fuerte y muestreamos los ros ms al sur. Recolectamos un total de 72 ejemplares de Ictalurus nativos en las cuencas de los ros Yaqui, Fuerte, Sinaloa, Culiacn, y San Lorenzo. No recolectamos ejemplares de Ictalurus nativos en la cuenca del Mayo. La distribucin del bagre de Yaqui parece estar restringida a las cuencas de los ros Yaqui, Mayo, y Fuerte, las cuales albergan actualmente los bagres no-nativos I. furcatus y I. punctatus. El bagre no-nativo Ameiurus melas se conoce para la cuenca del Yaqui y el bagre Pylodictis olivaris se registra anecdticamente para la cuenca del Yaqui. Las amenazas para el bagre Yaqui se han incrementado en aos recientes y la hibridacin con I. punctatus se ha extendido. Concluimos que el bagre de Yaqui deber considerarse como en peligro de extincin a lo largo de su distribucin y que el estatus de las poblaciones remanentes de Ictalurus en los Estados Unidos y Mxico deber revisarse e intensificar su manejo.
23028182|Stream flow modifications, such as reduced spring flow and construction of low-head dams, have led to declines in the headwater catfish (Ictalurus lupus) across much of its range, as has competition with channel catfish (I. punctatus). Hybridization between headwater catfish and channel catfish also poses a threat to the headwater catfish. Our analyses of cytochrome-b sequences of headwater catfish from the Frio River, Devils River, and Independence Creek indicated that a population of headwater catfish occurs in the Frio River of the Nueces Drainage, where it was considered extirpated since 1967, and that hybridization is occurring in populations that inhabit the Frio River and Independence Creek. No obvious sign of hybridization was present in the population of headwater catfish in the Devils River. La modificacin de flujo de arroyos como reducida alimentacin por manantiales y la construccin a pequea escala de diques ha provocado la disminucin del bagre lobo (Ictalurus lupus) a lo largo de mucha de su distribucin geogrfica, as como la competencia con el bagre de canal (I. punctatus). Hibridacin entre el bagre lobo y el bagre de canal tambin amenaza al bagre lobo. Nuestro anlisis de secuencias de citocromo-b del bagre lobo de los ros Fro y Devils y del arroyo Independence demostraron que una poblacin del bagre lobo habita el ro Fro donde fue considera extirpada desde 1967, y que la hibridacin est ocurriendo en las poblaciones del ro Fro y del arroyo Independence. No hubo ninguna indicacin de la hibridacin en la poblacin del bagre lobo del ro Devils.
23028131|We used non-invasive genetic techniques to investigate the number and distribution of cougars (Puma concolor) inhabiting Guadalupe Mountains National Park, Texas. During 8 years, 31 resident and transient cougars were identified genetically and 15 individuals used the park in 2002. Based on estimates of size of home ranges of males and females, the park should support 46 resident adults. Genetic data suggest a high number of transients and, perhaps, an unstable population that may be the result of intense hunting pressure outside protected areas. Analysis of genetic diversity indicates restricted gene flow between the park and other populations in western Texas. Utilizamos tcnicas genticas no invasoras para investigar el nmero y la distribucin del puma (Puma concolor) en el Parque Nacional de las Guadalupe Mountains en Texas. Durante 8 aos, ?31 pumas residentes y transitorios fueron identificados genticamente y ?15 individuos habitaron el parque en 2002. De acuerdo con clculos del tamao del rango de hogar de machos y hembras, el parque debe sostener de 4 a 6 adultos residentes. Los datos genticos sugieren un alto nmero de transentes y tal vez una poblacin inestable que puede ser resultado de altos niveles de caza fuera de las reas protegidas. El anlisis de la diversidad gentica indica un flujo gentico restringido entre el parque y otras poblaciones en el oeste de Texas.
23028132|We radiotracked 2363 adult female elk (Cervus elaphus) during 20032007 to determine whether condition (amount of body fat), survival of adults, or production and survival of juveniles was being impacted by habitat or other influences. Lactating females accrued relatively high levels of body fat (8.911.4%). Rates of survival of adult females were 0.951.00, rates of pregnancy were 0.870.96, and probability of pregnancy was most strongly related to mass, with larger females more likely to conceive. Preweaning (0.690.82), postweaning (0.580.87), and annual (0.440.71) rates of survival of juveniles varied among years. Excluding harvest, elk were able to achieve an annual rate of increase in size of population of 1112%, which was limited only by survival of juveniles. Survival of juveniles was associated primarily with precipitation during gestation and parturition, indicating few constraints related to habitat. Seguimos por medio de radiotelemetra 2363 hembras adultas de ciervo comn (Cervus elaphus) durante 20032007 para determinar si su condicin (cantidad de grasa corporal), sobrevivencia de adultos, o la produccin y sobrevivencia de juveniles fue impactada por el hbitat u otros factores. Las hembras lactantes llegaron a tener relativamente altos niveles de grasa corporal (8.911.4%). Las tasas de sobrevivencia de las hembras adultas fueron de 0.951.00, la tasas de preez fueron de 0.87 0.96, y la probabilidad de la preez estuvo fuertemente relacionada a la masa corporal. Las hembras ms grandes tuvieron ms probabilidad de concebir. La tasa de sobrevivencia de juveniles predestetados (0.690.82), postdestetados (0.580.87), y anuales vari entre aos. Excluyendo la remocin por casera, el ciervo comn fue capaz de obtener una tasa anual de crecimiento en el tamao poblacional de 1112%, la cual slo estuvo limitada por la sobrevivencia de los juveniles. La sobrevivencia de los juveniles estuvo asociada principalmente con la precipitacin durante la gestacin y parto, indicando pocas restricciones relacionadas con el hbitat.
23028133|We studied relationships between quality and quantity of habitat and conversion of land to caliche roads and well pads associated with oil and gas development. We asked how these factors affected abundance of dune-dwelling lizards, with emphasis on a habitat specialist, the dunes sagebrush lizard Sceloporus arenicolus. Open depressions in dune complexes are a critical landscape feature for S. arenicolus, and extensively used by all species; thus, size and total area of open depressions in a study site were our measures of habitat quality and quantity. There were significant differences in habitat quality among sites, and habitat quality and quantity were correlated significantly. Abundances of all lizards, including S. arenicolus, varied significantly among sites and this variation could be explained by amount of habitat at a given site. Relationships between oil and gas development, quantity and quality of habitat, and abundances of lizards likely occur on different spatial scales constraining our ability to detect direct effects of oil and gas development alone. Our research is the first to investigate effects of oil and gas development on an assemblage of dune-dwelling lizards. Se estudiaron las relaciones entre la calidad y la cantidad de hbitat y la conversin de hbitat a caminos y plateas de caliche para pozos petroleros asociados al desarrollo petrolero. Preguntamos cmo dichos factores afectan la abundancia de lagartijas que habitan dunas, con nfasis en una especie especialista Sceloporus arenicolus. Las depresiones abiertas en los complejos de dunas de arena son una caracterstica importante del paisaje para S. arenicolus y son usadas mucho por todas las especies, entonces el tamao y rea total de estas depresiones en un sitio fueron nuestras medidas de calidad y cantidad de hbitat. Se encontraron diferencias significativas en la calidad de hbitat entre los sitios, y la calidad y cantidad de hbitat estuvieron significativamente correlacionadas entre s. Las abundancias de lagartijas de todas las especies, inclusive S. arenicolus, variaron significativamente entre sitios, y tal variacin podra estar explicada por la cantidad de hbitat en un sitio determinado. Las relaciones entre el desarrollo petrolero, la calidad y cantidad de hbitat, y las abundancias de lagartijas probablemente ocurren a distintas escalas espaciales, limitando nuestra capacidad de detectar los efectos directos de desarrollo petrolero exclusivamente. Este trabajo es el primero en investigar algunos efectos del desarrollo petrolero en un ensamblaje de lagartijas de dunas.
23028134|We examined two co-occurring species of Malvaceae in the savanna of central Texas to determine their photosynthetic response to varying levels of light. Abutilon theophrasti had a mean (1 SD) density of 4  4 plants/m in the open-grassland phase of the savanna, and a density of 1  2 plants/m under canopy of woody mottes. Malvaviscus arboreus var. drummondii was not in the open-grassland phase and had a density of 3  6 plants/m under canopy of woody mottes. Mean midday levels of light in the open and canopy were significantly different at 2,004 versus 192 mol/m/s, respectively. Maximum photosynthetic rate of A. theophrasti (34.6  3.6 M CO/m/s) occurred at a photosynthetic-flux density of 2,000  0.0 M /m/s and was significantly greater than the maximum photosynthetic rate of M. arboreus var. drummondii (14.8  2.2 M CO/m/s), which occurred at a photosynthetic-flux density of 1,350  173.0 M /m/s. Light saturation, light-compensation point, dark respiration rates, stomatal conductance, and transpiration rates for A. theophrasti were higher than rates of M. arboreus var. drummondii. These species have significant differences in most gas-exchange measurements, reflecting differences in their habitats. Based on these differences, M. arboreus var. drummondii is a sunshade intermediate and A. theophrasti is a sun plant. However, maximum-photosynthetic-rate values and levels of light at maximum photosynthetic rate suggest that M. arboreus var. drummondii would do well in edge or partially shaded habitats. Examinamos dos especies de malvceas que conviven en las sabanas del centro de Texas con el fin de determinar su respuesta fotosinttica a diferentes niveles de luz. Abutilon theophrasti tuvo una densidad (1 DE) de 4  4 plantas/m en la fase de pastizal de las sabanas, y una densidad de 1  2 plantas/m bajo el dosel en los parches boscosos. Malvaviscus arboreus var. drummondii no fue encontrado en los pastizales, pero tuvo una densidad de 3  6 plantas/m bajo el dosel en los parches boscosos. Los niveles de luz al medioda en campo abierto y bajo del dosel fueron significativamente diferentes (un promedio de 2,004 versus 192 ?mol/m/s, respectivamente). La tasa fotosinttica mxima de A. theophrasti (34.6  3.6 ?M CO?/m/s) ocurri a una densidad de flujo fotosinttico de 2,000  0.0 ?M /m/s y fue significativamente mayor que la tasa fotosinttica mxima de M. arboreus var. drummondii (14.8  2.2 ?M CO?/m/s), que ocurri a una densidad de flujo fotosinttico de 1,350  173.0 ?M /m/s. La saturacin de luz, el punto de compensacin lumnico, las tasas de respiracin en la oscuridad, la conductancia estomtica, y las tasas de transpiracin fueron mayores en A. theophrasti que en M. arboreus var. drummondii. Estas especies tienen una diferencia significativa en la mayora de los parmetros involucrados en el intercambio gaseoso, lo cual refleja las diferencias entre sus hbitats. Basados en estas diferencias, M. arbores var. drummondii es una planta entre sol y sombra, y A. theophrasti es una planta de sol. Sin embargo, las tasas fotosintticas mximas y los niveles de luz a los que se produce esa tasa fotosinttica mxima sugieren que M. arboreus var. drummondii puede tener un buen desempeo en hbitats de borde o en hbitats parcialmente sombreados.
23028135|Nichol's turk's head cactus Echinocactus horizonthalonius var. nicholii (Cactaceae) occurs in a few isolated populations in the Sonoran Desert of south-central Arizona (Pima and Pinal counties) and in one isolated population in Mexico. Populations of this variety are disjunct from the more widespread typical variety (E. h. var. horizonthalonius) that occurs in the Chihuahuan Desert of New Mexico, Texas, and Mexico. Variety nicholii occurs almost exclusively on Horquilla limestone substrate, and was federally listed as endangered in 1979. Since 1995, we have monitored study plots of this cactus in the Waterman Mountains, Pima County, Arizona, 3220N, 11128W, elevation 975 m, measuring size of plants, condition, and presence-absence of reproduction in ca. 200 individuals. Here we report data for 19952008. Rates of growth were slow, averaging 0.35 cm (SD  0.53) in height and 0.26 cm (SD  0.28) in diameter/year. Plants usually began flowering when they reached about 4 cm in height and 8 cm in diameter. Of 109 deaths recorded since 1995, 47% followed a visible decline in condition; the remainder of deaths were unanticipated. The study population declined from 129 individuals in 1995 to 89 in 2008. El cactus biznaga meloncillo Echinocactus horizonthalonius var. nicholii (Cactaceae) occurre en unas poblaciones aisladas en el desierto de Sonora en la zona sur y central de Arizona (condados de Pima y Pinal) y en una poblacin aislada de Mxico. Las poblaciones de esta variedad se encuentran geogrficamente aparte de la variedad tpica (E. h. var. horizonthalonius) que ocurre en el desierto de Chihuahua de Nuevo Mxico, Texas, y Mxico. La variedad nicholii ocurre casi exclusivamente en sustratos de caliza de Horquilla, y fue enlistada federalmente como una especie en peligro de extincin en 1979. Desde 1995, hemos monitoreado sitios de estudio con este cactus en las Montaas Waterman localizadas en el condado de Pima, Arizona, 3220?N, 11128?W, con una elevacin de 975 m, midiendo el tamao de la planta, su condicin y presencia o ausencia de reproduccin en aproximadamente 200 individuos. Reportamos datos de 1995 hasta 2008. Las tasas de crecimiento fueron lentas, con un promedio de 0.35 cm (0.53 DE) de altura y 0.26 cm (0.28 DE) de dimetro/ao. La floracin regularmente ocurri cuando las plantas alcanzaron una altura de 4 cm y 8 cm de dimetro. De las 109 plantas muertas reportadas desde 1995, 47% haban mostrado una decada aparente en cuanto a la condicin; el resto de las muertes fueron inesperadas. La poblacin estudiada declin de 129 individuos en 1995 a 89 en 2008.
23028136|A significantly greater proportion of brush-cleared plots had the Zapata bladderpod Physaria thamnophila than did uncleared plots. However, density of P. thamnophila, especially density of seedlings, was correlated positively with a canopy-cover index on the four sites studied. These apparently contradictory results may have been due to facilitation of seeds and seedlings of P. thamnophila by litter. Litter, normally associated with shrubs, was spread across the site by brush-clearing. Beneficial effects of brush-clearing (without disruption of soil) on P. thamnophila suggest that fire may have been part of its environment in the past. The four populations of P. thamnophila that we studied fluctuated widely in size and in rates of reproduction and establishment from year to year. Physaria thamnophila estaba presente en un nmero significativamente mayor de parcelas con remocin de arbustos que en las parcelas sin remocin de arbustos. Sin embargo, la densidad de P. thamnophila, especialmente la de las plntulas, estuvo positivamente correlacionada con el ndice de cobertura arbustiva en los cuatro sitios de estudio. Ambos resultados, aparentemente contradictorios, pueden deberse a que la broza ofrezca un efecto facilitador para las semillas y plntulas de P. thamnophila. La broza, normalmente acumulada bajo los arbustos, estaba esparcida a travs del sitio debido a la remocin de los arbustos. El efecto positivo para P. thamnophila de la remocin de los arbustos (sin perturbar el suelo) sugiere que los incendios formaban parte de su ambiente en el pasado. El tamao y las tasas de reproduccin y establecimiento de las cuatro poblaciones de P. thamnophila incluidas en este estudio fluctuaron ampliamente ao con ao.
23028137|The fly Palpada mexicana is one of the many syrphids that employ hilltopping as a mating system. In central Arizona, males of P. mexicana can be found on peaktops in spring and, to a lesser extent, autumn. Year after year, the flies gather to perch or hover near certain prominent plants on the ridgeline that constitutes Usery Peak, Maricopa County. About 20% of all marked males returned on subsequent days to the landmarks where they had been captured. Although site fidelity and territoriality are apparently fairly weak in this species, the behavior of P. mexicana is similar to that of various hilltopping flies and other insects, but markedly different from those syrphids that wait or search for mates at flowers or oviposition sites. La mosca Palpada mexicana es uno de muchos srfidos que se agrupan intensamente en las cimas de montaas como sistema de apareamiento. En Arizona central, machos de P. mexicana se ecuentran en las cimas de las montaas durante la primavera y, menos frecuentamente, en el otoo. Ao tras ao, las moscas se reunen cerca a ciertas plantas prominentes a lo largo de la cima de Usery Peak, condado de Maricopa. Cerca de una quinta parte de todos los machos marcados volvieron en das siguientes a las posiciones donde ellos haban sido capturados. Aunque la fidelidad a un sitio y la territorialidad parecen dbiles en esta especie, el comportamiento de P. mexicana es similar al de muchos otros moscas y otros insectos que se agrupan en las cimas pero distintamente diferente de los srfidos que esperan o buscan hembras en flores o sitios de oviposicin.
23028138|In Omar Torrijos National Park, Cocl Province, Panama, we visually located Cope's vine snakes Oxybelis brevirostris at night along trails and streams. Of 203 O. brevirostris located, we documented height of perch for 185 individuals during March 2005March 2007. All sleeping snakes encountered were on vegetation rather than on the ground. There was no significant difference in height of perch between males (170.1 cm) and females (148.7 cm). There, however, was a significant positive relationship between snoutvent length and height of perch. Longer snakes perched on branches significantly more often than small snakes, which tended to perch on herbaceous leaves. En el Parque Nacional de Omar Torrijos, Provincia de Cocl, Panam, localizamos Oxybelis brevirostris durante encuentros visuales en la noche por senderos y arroyos. Encontramos 203 O. brevirostris y documentamos la altura de perchas de 185 individuos entre marzo 2005 y marzo 2007. Todas las serpientes que encontramos mientras dorman estaban en la vegetacin y no en la tierra. No hubo una diferencia significativa en altura de la percha entre machos (170.1 cm) y hembras (148.7 cm). Pero s hubo una relacin significativa positiva entre la longitud hocico-cloaca y la altura de la percha. Serpientes ms largas se encaramaron en ramas significativamente ms frecuentemente que las pequeas serpientes, que solieron encaramarse en las hojas herbceas.
23028139|The Tibicen bifidus species complex is composed of T. b. bifidus (Davis, 1916) and T. b. simplex Davis, 1941. We analyzed biogeographical, morphological, and physiological parameters to determine if these taxa represent two species. There are significant differences in biogeography, as well as selection of host-plant and several morphological characteristics. Comparisons of their calling songs approach statistical significance. Sound-pressure level of alarm calls and thermal responses of the two taxa do not differ significantly. Our data suggest that the two taxa represent distinct species. El complejo de especies Tibicen bifidus est compuesto por T. b. bifidus (Davis, 1916) y T. b. simplex Davis, 1941. Se analizaron los parmetros biogeogrficos, morfolgicos y fisiolgicos para determinar si estos taxones representan dos especies. Hay diferencias significativas en la biogeografa, as como la seleccin de las plantas hospederas y varias caractersticas morfolgicas. Las comparaciones de sus canciones de apareamiento se acercan al significado estadstico. El nivel de presin acstica de las llamadas de alarma y las respuestas trmicas de los dos taxones no difieren significativamente. Nuestros datos sugieren que los dos taxones representan especies distintas.
23028140|Seasonal variability in intensities of ectoparasites of western fence lizards (Sceloporus occidentalis) was quantified in spring, summer, and autumn 2008. Lizards were suspended over pans of water in the laboratory to enumerate replete western black-legged ticks (Ixodes pacificus) and mites. Intensity of ectoparasites was greatest in spring. On average, mites comprised the greatest proportion of ectoparasites, followed by larval and nymphal ticks, respectively. Mites were on lizards year-round. Overall intensity of ticks was greatest in spring, but low during summer and autumn. Males were more heavily parasitized by ticks than females in spring, whereas females had greater intensities of mites in autumn. There was a slight, positive relationship between size of lizard and intensity of ticks, but not with intensity of mites. We report greater intensities of ectoparasites on S. occidentalis than several other studies, which may be due to differences in habitats and methods. La variabilidad estacional en la intensidad de ectoparsitos de la lagartija (Sceloporus occidentalis) fue cuantificada en la primavera, el verano y el otoo del 2008. Para contar el nmero de garrapatas de patas negras (Ixodes pacificus) y de caros en el laboratorio, las lagartijas fueron suspendidas sobre cazuelas de agua. La intensidad de ectoparsitos fue mayor durante la primavera. Los caros constituyeron la mayor porcin de ectoparsitos, seguidos por larvas y ninfas de garrapatas, respectivamente. En las lagartijas los caros se encontraron presentes durante todo el ao. En general la intensidad de garrapatas fue mayor en la primavera, pero baja durante el verano y el otoo. Los machos fueron ms severamente parasitados por garrapatas que las hembras durante la primavera, mientras que las hembras tuvieron una mayor intensidad de caros en el otoo. Se encontr una ligera relacin positiva entre el tamao de la lagartija y la intensidad de garrapatas, pero no con la intensidad de caros. Reportamos una mayor intensidad de ectoparsitos en S. occidentalis que en varios otros estudios, lo cual se puede atribuir a diferencias de hbitat y metodologa.
23028141|During the 2006 and 2007 breeding seasons, we conducted a systematic survey for western burrowing owls (Athene cunicularia hypugaea) across the portions of California's southeastern deserts that had never been systematically surveyed for the species. We found few or no western burrowing owls in northern and eastern portions of the Mojave Desert or in the Sonoran Desert (excluding Palo Verde Valley). However, there was a substantial concentration of burrowing owls in the western Mojave Desert, which we estimated to contain 560 (SE = 268) breeding pairs. We also documented 179 breeding pairs along the banks of water-conveyance structures in Palo Verde Valley in the Sonoran Desert region. These two disjunct populations comprise a significant portion of the population of burrowing owls in California. Durante las pocas de reproduccin del 2006 y 2007, se realiz un estudio sistemtico de tecolotes llaneros occidentales (Athene cunicularia hypugaea) de las zonas de los desiertos del sudeste de California que nunca haban sido muestreados sistemticamente para esta especie. Encontramos pocos o ningn tecolote llanero occidental ni en las partes nortes y orientales del desierto Mojave ni en el desierto Sonora (excluyendo el valle de Palo Verde). Sin embargo, encontramos una concentracin notable de tecolotes llaneros en la parte occidental del desierto Mojave, que se estim contener <560 (SE = 268) parejas reproductoras. Asimismo, documentamos 179 parejas de tecolotes llaneros en las orillas de las estructuras de conduccin de agua en el valle Palo Verde del desierto Sonora. Estas dos poblaciones separadas de tecolotes llaneros comprenden una parte significativa de la poblacin total de California.
23028142|In October 2006, months after shallow experimental ponds in the Salton Sea Basin were filled with water from the Alamo River and Salton Sea, fish were observed in several ponds, although inlets had been screened to exclude fish. During October 2007-November 2009, nine surveys were conducted using baited minnow traps to document species and relative abundance of fish. Surveys yielded 3,620 fish representing five species. Desert pupfish (Cyprinodon macularius), the only native species encountered, was the most numerous and comprised >93% of the catch. Nonnative species included western mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis, 4.1%), sailfin molly (Poecilia latipinna, 2.8%), and tilapia (a mixture of hybrid Mozambique tilapia Oreochromis mossambicus  O. urolepis and redbelly tilapia Tilapia zillii, <0.1%). Dominance by desert pupfish, which persisted over our 2 years of study, was unusual because surveys conducted in nearby agricultural drains yielded relatively few desert pupfish. En octubre 2006, meses despus de que el agua del ro lamo y el Salton Sea llenaron unas lagunas experimentales poco profundas en la cuenca del Salton Sea, peces fueron observados en varias lagunas, aunque sus entradas fueron enrejadas para excluirlos. Desde octubre del 2007 hasta noviembre del 2009, nueve muestreos fueron tomados usando trampas con carnada para documentar las especies de peces y su abundancia relativa. Los muestreos produjeron 3,620 peces representando cinco especies. El cachorrito del desierto (Cyprinodon macularius), la nica especie nativa fue el ms abundante y abarc >93% de la pesca. Especies no nativas incluyeron guayacn mosquito (Gambusia affinis, 4.1%), topote velo negro (Poecilia latipinna, 2.8%), y tilapia (una mezcla de hbridos de tilapia mosmbica Oreochromis mossambicus  O. urolepis y tilapia de vientre rojo Tilapia zillii, <0.1%). La dominancia por el cachorrito del desierto persisti durante los dos aos del estudio, lo que fue inusual porque muestreos tomados en los canales agrcolas de drenaje cercanos produjeron relativamente pocos cachorritos del desierto.
23028143|We determined the effect of three concentrations of gibberellic acid on germination and photoblastic behavior of five species of Opuntioideae from the Mapimi Biosphere Reserve, southern Chihuahuan Desert, Durango, Mexico. For Cylindropuntia imbricata, addition of high concentrations (1,500 ppm) of gibberellic acid gave a 30% germination similar to the control; for Opuntia rastrera, medium concentrations (1,000 ppm) gave <40% germination; and for O. microdasys, low concentrations (500 ppm) gave 35% germination. High concentrations restricted germination. Opuntia macrocentra and Cylindropuntia leptocaulis did not differ significantly from the control. Opuntia macrocentra required light for germination; addition of gibberellic acid did not substitute for light. For all species, light increased germination and the effect of gibberellic acid is species dependent, rarely better than the control. Species we studied did not seem to have physical dormancy and may have had physiological dormancy that was unaffected by gibberellic acid. Determinamos la respuesta fotoblstica y el efecto de tres concentraciones de cido giberlico en la germinacin de cinco especies de Opuntioideae de la Reserva de la Bisfera de Mapim en el desierto Chihuahuense, Mxico. Para Cylindropuntia imbricata con la adicin de una concentracin alta (1,500 ppm) se obtuvo una germinacin de 30% similar al control; para Opuntia rastrera, con una concentracin media (1,000 ppm) se obtuvo una germinacin <40%; y para O. microdasys, con una concentracin baja (500 ppm) se obtuvo una germinacin de 35% y una concentracin media inhibi la germinacin. Opuntia macrocentra y Cylindropuntia leptocaulis no difirieron significativamente del control. Opuntia macrocentra requiri luz para su germinacin y la adicin de cido giberlico no sustituy el requerimiento de luz. Para todas las especies estudiadas, la luz increment la germinacin y el efecto del cido giberlico es dependiente de la especie, y en pocas ocasiones mejor que el control. Las especies estudiadas no parecieron presentar latencia fsica y posiblemente tuvieron latencia fisiolgica que no fue afectada por el cido giberlico.
23028144|We report observations on feeding and nesting behavior, reproductive condition, and activity patterns of the Mexican red-bellied squirrel (Sciurus aureogaster) during 20002002 in an oak-pine (Quercus-Pinus) forest south of Ptzcuaro, Michoacn, Mexico. Squirrels fed heavily on seeds of pines, oaks, and dogwoods (Cornus), and rarely cached food. Squirrels used leaf nests for nesting and did not use tree cavities. Squirrels had year-round breeding activity and were more active in early morning and before sunset; however, daily activities were noticeably reduced during hot and sunny days or during strong winds. Squirrels had two color phases: gray-white and melanistic. Reportamos observaciones sobre el comportamiento de alimentacin y anidacin, condicin reproductiva y patrones de actividad de la ardilla mexicana de vientre rojo (Sciurus aureogaster) durante 20002002 en un bosque de pino-encino (Pinus-Quercus) al sur de Ptzcuaro, Michoacn, Mxico. Las ardillas se alimentaron fuertemente de semillas de pino, encino, y corno (Cornus), y raramente ocultaron alimento. Las ardillas utilizaron nidos de hoja para anidar y no utilizaron cavidades de rbol. Las ardillas tuvieron una actividad reproductiva todo el ao y fueron ms activas temprano por la maana y antes del atardecer; sin embargo, las actividades diarias se redujeron notablemente durante das clidos y soleados o durante vientos fuertes. Las ardillas tuvieron dos fases de color: gris-blanco y melnica.
23028145|We conducted a survey in March 2007 of two neighborhoods in Tucson, Pima County, Arizona, where coyotes (Canis latrans) were present. The survey was conducted originally in 1992 in the same neighborhoods. We compared responses between years. Coyotes appeared habituated to humans to the point of approaching dogs on leashes; most humans did not attempt to harass nearby coyotes. Responses revealed an increase in frequency of sightings of coyotes between years. Attitudes about coyotes (e.g., nuisance, threatened) affected how humans reacted toward this predator. Realizamos una encuesta pblica en marzo del 2007 en dos vecindarios en Tucson, condado de Pima, Arizona, donde hay coyotes. Originalmente, la encuesta fue hecha en 1992 en los mismos vecindarios. Comparamos las respuestas entre aos. Los coyotes al parecer estuvieron acostumbrados a los seres humanos al punto de acercarse a perros con correa; la mayora de las personas no trataron de acosar a los coyotes cercanos. Las respuestas revelaron un aumento en la frecuencia de las observaciones de coyotes entre aos. Las actitudes sobre los coyotes (por ejemplo, el fastidio, la amenaza) determinaron la manera en cmo las personas reaccionaron hacia este depredador.
23028146|We report five new records of mammals for Le Flore County, Oklahoma, and additional records of Sorex longirostris for the state. Records for 14 other species, some not reported from the county or state in decades, provide new information on distributions in southeastern Oklahoma. Presentamos cinco nuevos registros de especies de mamferos para el condado de Le Flore en Oklahoma y registros adicionales de Sorex longirostris de Oklahoma. Registros de 14 especies adicionales, algunos no reportados por dcadas, proveen nueva informacin de las distribuciones en el sureste de Oklahoma.
23028147|Diet of Harris' hawks (Parabuteo unicinctus) was analyzed using 94 pellets and 128 remains of prey collected during autumn-winter 2006 and 2007 in Reserva Oasis la Campana, a privately protected coastal area in central Chile. Hawks consumed primarily small mammals (69.6% frequency, 88.4% biomass). Although native rodents were consumed most frequently (52.5% frequency), European rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) contributed most of the biomass (56.9%) in the diet. Birds were second in importance (23.2% frequency, 10.5% biomass), and some insects and reptiles were consumed. The geometric mean mass of vertebrate prey (267.8 g) was close to that previously documented for Harris' hawks in areas near the Andes Mountains of central Chile. Composition of the diet in our study was similar to that documented for North America, and was almost identical to that in other areas of central Chile. La dieta de los peucos (Parabuteo unicinctus) fue analizada utilizando 94 regurgitados y 128 restos de presa recolectados durante la temporada otoo-invierno del 2006 y 2007 en la Reserva Oasis La Campana, un rea costera protegida privada en Chile central. Los peucos consumieron principalmente mamferos pequeos (frecuencia 69.6%, biomasa 88.4%). Aunque los roedores nativos fueron la presa ms consumida (frecuencia 52.5%), el conejo europeo (Oryctolagus cuniculus) contribuy la mayor parte de la biomasa (56.9%) en la dieta. Las aves siguieron a los mamferos en importancia (frecuencia 23.2%, biomasa 10.5%), y algunos insectos y reptiles fueron consumidos. La media geomtrica de la masa de las presas vertebradas (267.8 g) fue cercana a la documentada previamente para peucos en reas cercanas a la cordillera de los Andes de Chile central. La composicin de la dieta en nuestro sitio de estudio fue similar a la documentada para Norteamrica, y fue casi idntica a la documentada para otras reas de Chile central.
23028148|New distributional records are reported for millipeds of the orders Callipodida, Chordeumatida, Julida, Polydesmida, and Spirobolida. Two state records are documented for the julids, Brachyiulus lusitanus (Verhoeff) and B. pusillus (Leach) in Texas. In addition, we report 21 county records for other taxa, including the third record for Aliulus caddoensis Causey in Oklahoma. Nuevos registros de distribucin son reportados para las rdenes de milpis Callipodida, Chordeumatida, Julida, Polydesmida, y Spirobolida. Dos nuevos registros estatales son documentados para Julidae, Brachyiulus lusitanus (Verhoeff) y B. pusillus (Leach) en Texas. Adems, reportamos 21 nuevos registros del condado para otros taxa, entre ellos el tercer registro de Aliulus caddoensis Causey en Oklahoma.
23028149|Larvae of the phorid fly Megaselia scalaris were in eggs in a naturally incubated nest of an alligator snapping turtle (Macrochelys temminckii). It appears that these larvae contributed to failure of this nest. Infestation by phorid larvae has been reported previously for eggs and nests of multiple species of turtles, but has not been reported from M. temminckii. Larvas del dptero Megaselia scalaris (Phoridae) fueron encontradas en los huevos de un nido de incubacin natural de la tortuga caimn (Macrochelys temminckii). Parece que las larvas contribuyeron al fracaso del nido. Infestacin de huevos y nidos de varias especies de tortugas con larvas de moscas (Phoridae) se ha reportado anteriormente, pero no en M. temminckii.
23028150|Lampropeltis ruthveni is recorded for the first time from four localities in the Mexican state of Hidalgo. This expands the known range northeastward by 84.6 km (by air) from the nearest locality in the state of Quertaro. Se registra por primera vez la especie Lampropeltis ruthveni para cuatro localidades en el estado de Hidalgo de Mxico. Esto ampla su distribucin 84.6 km (en lnea recta) al noreste de la localidad ms cercana en el estado de Quertaro.
23028151|Crematogaster sotobosque is a Neotropical ant previously known as far north as Costa Rica. We report on a collection of this species from a mixed-deciduous-conifer forest in the Santa Catalina Mountains, Pima County, Arizona. We also extend the known distribution of this species southward to Bolivia. Crematogaster sotobosque es una hormiga neotropical con distribucin conocida tan al norte como Costa Rica. Reportamos la colecta de esta especie en un bosque mixto de conferos y rboles caducifolios de las Santa Catalina Mountains en el condado de Pima, Arizona, Estados Unidos. Adicionalmente extendemos la distribucin de esta especie hacia el sur hasta Bolivia.
23028152|We report the first observation of depredation on a nest of the eastern meadowlark (Sturnella magna) by a speckled kingsnake (Lampropeltis getula holbrooki). Depredation events probably are opportunistic, but they may have an impact on local populations of eastern meadowlarks. Reportamos la primera observacin de la depredacin de un nido del pradero comn (Sturnella magna) por la serpiente rey moteada (Lampropeltis getula holbrooki). Eventos de depredacin son probablemente oportunistas, pero pueden tener un impacto sobre poblaciones locales del pradero comn.
41407867|The Davis Mountains cottontail, Sylvilagus robustus, is an endemic species of the Trans-Pecos area of Texas. Although S. robustus previously was believed to be extirpated from the Chisos Mountains, we confirmed existence of a population. We examined intrapopulation and interpopulation variation in S.robustus, as well as the genetic relationship to the eastern cottontail (S. flondanus) using partial sequences of the mitochondrial cytochrome b and control region genes. Six morphometric traits relating to overall size and six cranial characters considered diagnostic for the two subspecies were used to confirm identification of specimens. Our morphological analysis suggested that specimens from the Chisos and Davis Mountains were S.robustus; however, low levels of genetic divergence between S. robustus and S. floridanus appeared inconsistent with species-level recognition for S. robustus. El conejo del monte, Sylvilagus robustus, es una especie endmica de la zona de Trans-Pecos de Texas. Aunque S. robustus fue anteriormente considerada erradicada de las montaas Chisos, confirmamos la existencia de una poblacin. Examinamos la variacin gentica dentro y entre poblaciones en S. robustus, y tambin la relacin gentica con el conejo de castilla (S. floridanus) usando secuencias parciales de genes de ADN mitocondriales de la regin de control y de citocromo b. Seis caractersticas morfomtricas relacionadas con el tamao corporal y seis caractersticas de crneos consideradas diagnsticas para las dos subespecies fueron usadas para confirmar la identificacin de los especmenes. Nuestro anlisis morfolgico sugiri que los especmenes colectados de las montaas Chisos y Davis fueron S. robustus; sin embargo, los bajos niveles de divergencia gentica entre S. robustus y S. floridanus parecieron inconsistentes con el reconocimiento del nivel de especie para S. robustus.
41407868|To assess response of Mount Graham red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus grahamensis) to postfire conditions, we monitored size of home ranges and core areas and characteristics of vegetation at middens in an area of low-intensity burn. For a larger-scale assessment, we monitored mountain-wide occupancy of middens. Although red squirrels selected unburned locations as sites for middens, mean size of home range in a lightly burned area decreased over time, suggesting high availability of resources in lightly burned areas. Para evaluar la respuesta de las ardillas rojas del monte Graham (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus grahamensis) a condiciones de post-fuego, monitoreamos el tamao de los rangos de hogar y reas nucleares, y las caractersticas de vegetacin en basurales en un rea de quema de baja intensidad. Para una evaluacin a mayor escala, monitoreamos la ocupacin de basurales a lo largo de la montaa. Aunque las ardillas rojas seleccionaron lugares sin quemar como sitios para basurales, el tamao promedio del rango de hogar en un rea ligeramente quemada disminuy con el tiempo, sugiriendo alta disponibilidad de recursos en reas ligeramente quemadas.
41407869|We studied use of habitats and diets of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and feral asses (Equus asinus) by comparing vegetation (i. e., normalized-difference-vegetation index, normalized-differencevegetation-index rate), elevation, slope, and distances to water-catchments, roads, rivers and canals, and washes used by each species. Distribution was similar with respect to distances to roads, catchments, and rivers and canals in winter, normalized-difference-vegetation index and distance to catchments in spring, distance to rivers and canals in summer, and slope in autumn. Diets (from microhistological analysis of feces) revealed biologically significant overlap during the abundant-forage season (simplified Morisita index > 0.60). Diets of mule deer had high proportions of browse (76-85%) in all seasons and low proportions of grasses (1-2%) and forbs (4-8%); whereas, diets of feral asses contained less browse (65-72%) and more grasses (12-16%) and forbs (13-20%). Investigamos el uso de hbitat y las dietas del venado bura (Odocoileus hemionus) y el burro feral (Equus asinus) por comparar la vegetacin (es decir, el ndice de diferencias-normalizadas de la vegetacin, tasa del ndice de diferencias-normalizadas de la vegetacin), la elevacin, la inclinacin y las distancias hacia aguas artificiales, caminos, ros y canales, y arroyos usados por cada especie. La distribucin fue similar con respecto a las distancias a caminos, aguas artificiales y ros y canales en el invierno, el ndice de diferenciasnormalizadas de la vegetacin y las distancias hacia aguas artificiales en la primavera, las distancias a ros y canales en el verano, y la inclinacin en el otoo. Las dietas (por el anlisis microhistolgico de fecas) revelaron una similitud biolgicamente significativa durante la estacin con el forraje abundante (el indice de Morisita simplificado >0.60). La dieta del venado bura tuvo proporciones altas de las especies leosas (76-85%) en todas las estaciones y proporciones bajas de los pastos (1-2%) y de las especies de plantas de hojas anchas (4-8%), mientras que la dieta del burro feral contuvo menos especies leosas (65-72%) y ms pastos (12-16%) y especies de plantas de hojas anchas (13-20%).
41407870|Information related to home ranges of the nilgai antelope (Boselaphus tragocamelus) was needed to estimate spread of cattle-fever ticks (Riphicephalus microplus and R. annulatus) and to develop management protocols. We captured, placed telemetry collars on, and monitored 10 male and 12 female nilgai antelopes during February 2006-May 2008. We detected no difference between size of home ranges of males and females and determined maximum axes of home ranges of 16.3 and 13.8 km, respectively. The combination of large home ranges and large axes of home range indicates that if cattle-fever ticks are being maintained on nilgai antelopes, then the area in which these antelopes may spread ticks is great. Informacin de los rangos de hogar de los nilgs (Boselaphus tragocamelus) fue necesaria para estimar la propagacin de las garrapatas (Riphicephalus microplus y R. annulatus), vectores de la fiebre de garrapata en bovinos, y para desarrollar programas de manejo sanitario. Se realiz la captura de 12 hembras y 10 machos de nilgs y se les colocaron collares de telemetra y se monitorearon de febrero de 2006 a mayo del 2008. No se encontraron diferencias entre el tamao de los rangos de hogar de los machos y de las hembras y se determin que los ejes mximos de rangos de hogar fueron de 16.3 y 13.8 km, respectivamente. La combinacin de rangos de hogar grandes y largos ejes mximos del rango de hogar indica que si las garrapatas de la fiebre del ganado se mantienen en los nilgs, entonces el rea donde estos antlopes podran esparcir a las garrapatas es muy amplia.
41407871|We used mist nets to survey small migrant and resident birds of scrub habitats in arroyos and adjacent uplands of the northern Chihuahuan Desert during late February-early May 1993-1997. We captured 723 individuals of 49 species. Species diversity was greater in arroyos than in adjacent uplands. Black-throated sparrows (Amphispiza bilineata), white-crowned sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys), and green-tailed towhees (Pipilo chlorurus) were captured most frequently. Rates of capture for residents, short-distance migrants, and Neotropical migrants were higher in arroyos than in adjacent shrubland and showed an increase after mid-April caused by an influx of Neotropical migrants heading north to their breeding grounds. Our results suggest that arroyos are important as stopover sites during spring for many migrants, especially Neotropical migrants, as they cross the northern Chihuahuan Desert. Utilizamos redes de niebla para muestrear aves residentes y migrantes en el habitat de matorrales de los cauces secos y de las mesetas adyacentes de la parte norte del desierto de Chihuahua durante finales de febrero hasta principios de mayo de los aos 1993 a 1997. Capturamos 723 aves pertenecientes a 49 especies.La diversidad de las especies fue ms grande en los cauces secos que en las mesetas adyacentes. Las especies capturadas con ms frecuencia fueron los gorriones pecho negro (Amphispiza bilineata), gorriones de corona blanca (Zonotnchia leucophrys), y toquis cola verde (Pipilo chlorurus). Las tazas de captura para las aves residentes, los migrantes de una distancia corta, y los migrantes neotropicales fueron ms altas en cauces secos comparadas al matorral adyacente y mostraron un aumento despus de mediados de abril por causa de la llegada de migrantes neotropicales rumbo al norte a sus reas de apareo. Nuestros resultados sugieren que los cauces secos son importantes como sitios de parada durante la primavera para muchas aves migrantes, en particular para los migrantes neotropicales, mientras pasan la regin nortea del desierto de Chihuahua.
41407872|The Texas horned lizard, Phrynosoma cornutum, feeds primarily on harvester ants (Pogonomyrmex) across much of its range. We quantified behavior of P. cornutum foraging on Pogonomyrmex relative to habitat and time. For the duration of their morning activity, 14 lizards were observed; we determined their use of habitat and location of ants that were captured. Lizards spent most of their time under vegetation; the type of vegetation used varied throughout the morning. Most feeding took place in the open and involved ants dispersed away from colonies. When feeding under vegetation, most feeding took place under mesquites (Prosopis), and location of mesquites under which lizards fed was nonrandom with respect to distance from entrances to colonies of ants. Feeding at entrances to colonies was restricted to a shorter period of the morning than feeding on dispersed ants. Males and females differed in use of habitat and in foraging behavior, with males more likely to feed in the open and to feed at entrances of colonies than females. La lagartija cornuda texana, Phrynosoma cornutum, se alimenta principalmente de hormigas del gnero Pogonomyrmex a lo largo de mucho de su distribucin. Cuan tincamos la conducta de P. cornutum forrajeando para Pogonomyrmex en cuanto al habitat y la hora del da. Observamos 14 individuos durante su actividad en las maanas; determinamos su uso del habitat y donde capturaron las hormigas. Las lagartijas pasaron la mayora del tiempo bajo la vegetacin; el tipo de vegetacin utilizada vari durante la maana.Forrajearon principalmente en espacios abiertos y comieron hormigas alejadas de sus colonias. Cuando forrajeaban bajo la vegetacin, fue principalmente bajo mezquites (Prosopis), y la colocacin de mezquites bajo los cuales comieron no fue al azar en cuanto a la distancia de entradas de colonias de hormigas. Forrajearon en las entradas de las colonias por un perodo ms restringido que cuando comieron hormigas dispersas. Los machos y las hembras difirieron en su uso del habitat y su conducta de forrajeo: los machos comieron ms en el espacio abierto y en las entradas de colonias que las hembras.
41407873|We assessed four potential sources of error in estimating size of the population of Devils Hole pupfish (Cypnnodon diabolis): net, time of day, diver, and order of diver. Experimental dives (3/day) were conducted during 4 days in July 2009. Effects of the four sources of error on estimates from dive surveys were analyzed using a split-split plot ANOVA. Diver and order of diver had no significant influence on estimates, whereas the effect of presence or absence of a net was significant. Effects of time of day and presence or absence of a net showed a significant interaction with depth of water. Results indicated that pupfish may move upward during the dive, and as a result, the standard methods of dive surveys may underestimate abundance. Evaluamos cuatro posibles fuentes de error al estimar el tamao poblacional del cachorrito del agujero del diablo (Cypnnodon diabolis): la red, la hora del da, el buzo, y el orden de los buzos. Buceos experimentales (3/da) se hicieron durante cuatro das en julio del 2009. Los efectos de estas cuatro fuentes de error sobre las estimaciones provenientes de los muestreos del buceo fueron analizados usando un ANOVA de split-split plot. El buzo y el orden de los buzos no tuvieron ninguna influencia significativa en las estimaciones, mientras que la presencia o ausencia de la red fue significativa. Los efectos de la hora del da y presencia o ausencia de la red demostraron una interaccin significativa con la profundidad del agua. Los resultados indicaron que los cachorritos puedan subir durante el buceo, y como consecuencia, los mtodos estndares de mustreos de buceo pueden subestimar la abundancia.
41407874|Objectives were to determine number and height of sprouts and seedlings following clearcutting of a mesa dominated by pinyon pines (Pinus edulis) and alligator junipers (Juniperus deppeana) in southwestern New Mexico and to determine effects of prescribed burning for control of sprouts and seedlings. No stump of pinyon pine sprouted. Nearly 50% of stumps of alligator junipers sprouted with most occurring in plots with slash removed; the fewest and tallest sprouts occurred in plots with slash uniformly scattered following clearcutting. Nearly 25% of stumps of gray oaks (Quercus grsea) sprouted. Burning in the same year as clearcutting did not affect sprouting of gray oaks as much as other treatments. Not burning clearcuts and leaving slash scattered resulted in the fewest sprouts, and shortest sprouts of gray oaks occurred in plots with slash removed. Seedlings of pinyon pines, alligator junipers, and gray oaks were most prevalent in uncut control plots. Some seedlings of alligator junipers were in plots with slash scattered and removed, and few seedlings were in plots that were burned. Most seedlings of gray oaks were in uncut control plots and plots where slash was removed. Seedlings of pinyon pines grew tallest in plots with slash removed, seedlings of alligator junipers grew tallest in plots where slash was scattered, and seedlings of gray oaks grew tallest in all plots except the uncut control. Los objetivos fueron determinar el nmero y altura de brotes y plntulas despus de la tala de una mesa dominada por pino pionero (Pinus edulis) y tscate (Juniperus deppeana) en el suroeste de Nuevo Mxico y determinar el efecto de la quema prescrita para el control de brotes y plntulas. Ningn tocn de pino pionero rebrot. Casi 50% de los tocones del tscate rebrotaron, con la mayora en las parcelas donde se quitaron los residuos de la tala; los menos y ms altos brotes se presentaron en parcelas con los residuos esparcidos uniformemente despus de la tala. Casi 25% de los tocones de encino (Quercus grsea) brotaron.Quemar en el mismo ao de la tala no afect los brotes del encino tanto como los otros tratamientos. No quemar despus de la tala y dejar los residuos esparcidos result en menos brotes, y en parcelas con remocin de residuos se presentaron plntulas de encinos ms cortas. Plntulas de pinos pioneros, tscate, y encino fueron ms prevalentes en parcelas control-sin cortes. Algunas plntulas de tscate fueron observadas en parcelas con los residuos esparcidos y removidos mientras que pocas plntulas se encontraron en parcelas con quema. La mayora de las plntulas del encino se encontraron en parcelas control sin tala y en parcelas donde se removieron los residuos. Las plntulas de pino pionero crecieron ms en parcelas con remocin de los residuos, las de tscate crecieron ms en parcelas donde se dispersaron los residuos, y las de encino crecieron ms en todas las parcelas excepto en el control sin corte.
41407875|We studied bullsnakes (Pituophis catenifer sayi) in the Sandhills of Nebraska. Females matured at ca. 90-cm snout-vent length after two seasons (ca. 33 months old), ovulated in early June, and oviposited in mid-June-early July. Frequently, females did not reproduce each year. The proportion reproducing was a function of size of body and warmth of previous summer. Individual eggs averaged 4% of mass of gravid females and size of egg tended to increase with size of body, but did not vary annually. Based on counts of corpora lutea or oviposited eggs, size of clutch averaged 9.5 and was correlated with size of body. Size of clutch varied among years, even after effects of size of body were removed, and tended to be greater in years with warmer temperatures in April-May. Size of clutches and eggs were correlated inversely. Mass of clutch increased with size of body, averaged 37% of mass of gravid females and 59% of post-gravid mass, and did not vary among years.Bullsnakes appear to be capital breeders with respect to frequency of reproduction, but also may respond to resources during vitellogenesis in spring with changes in size of clutch (income breeding). Mass of eggs and clutches were less plastic. Among Pituophis, size of egg and body decrease with increasing latitude; however, mass of egg standardized to size of body does not vary with latitude. Size of clutch standardized to size of body increases with latitude only in P. melanoleucus. Relative mass of clutch does not vary with size of body within or among populations. Frequency of reproduction and size of clutch exhibit considerable variation, apparently based on effects of climate on acquisition of resources, whereas mass of clutch and size of egg vary less (locally and regionally) and appear to be constrained more by natural selection for optimal dimensions. Se estudiaron serpientes toro (Pituophis catenifer sayi) en los cerros arenosos de Nebraska. Las hembras maduraron a una longitud hocico-cloaca de aproximadamente 90 cm despus de dos estaciones (ca.33 meses de edad), ovularon a principios de junio, y oviposicionaron de mediados de junio hasta principios de julio. Frecuentemente las hembras no se reprodujeron cada ao, y la proporcin para reproducirse fue en funcin del tamao corporal y del calor del verano anterior. Los huevos individuales promediaron un 4% de la masa corporal de hembras grvidas y el tamao del huevo tendi a aumentar con el tamao corporal sin variar anualmente. Con base al conteo de corpora lutea o huevos puestos, el tamao de la puesta promedio 9.5 huevos y se correlacion con el tamao corporal. El tamao de la puesta vari entre aos incluso despus de que los efectos del tamao corporal fueron removidos, tendiendo a ser mayor en aos con temperaturas ms clidas durante abril-mayo. El tamao de la puesta y el tamao del huevo se correlacionaron de manera inversa. La masa de la puesta aument con el tamao corporal, promediando un 37% de la masa corporal de hembras grvidas y un 59% de la masa corporal post-grvida, sin variar entre aos. P. catenifer sayi parece ser un reproductor basado en reservas acumuladas con respecto a la frecuencia reproductiva, sin embargo tambin pareciera responder a la disponibilidad de recursos durante la vitelognesis en la primavera mostrando cambios en el tamao de la puesta (reproduccin de ingresos). La masa del huevo y la masa de la puesta fueron menos variables. Dentro del gnero Pituophis, el tamao del huevo y tamao del cuerpo disminuyen con el aumento de la latitud. Sin embargo, la masa del huevo estandarizada (con base al tamao corporal) no vari con la latitud. El tamao de la puesta estandarizado por el tamao corporal aumenta con la latitud solamente en P. melanoleucus.La masa relativa de la puesta no vara con el tamao corporal dentro o entre poblaciones de Pituophis. La frecuencia reproductiva y el tamao de la puesta exhiben una variacin considerable, aparentemente como consecuencia de efectos climticos en la adquisicin de recursos. La masa de la puesta y el tamao del huevo varan en menor proporcin (local y regionalmente) pareciendo ser limitados por la seleccin natural para el mantenimiento de dimensiones ptimas.
41407876|A collection of large mammals was recovered from Pleistocene sediments in the Prescott Valley, Yavapai County, Arizona, during an excavation in 1984. We described specimens of Mammuthus cf.columbi, Equus cf.conversidens, Camelops, and Bison from this locality. These are the first reported occurrences of E.conversidens and Camelops in Yavapai County. The mammoth and horse were subadults and the bison and camel were juveniles. Excellent preservation of the mammoth indicated a rapid burial and comparisons to other mammoths suggested the individual was a small male. A radiocarbon date of 13,410 years before present, from fluvio-lacustrine sediments encasing the mammoth, provided a late Pleistocene age for the fauna. The grazing nature of this fauna indicates prevalent grasslands during the end of the Pleistocene in Prescott Valley. Se recuper una coleccin de grandes mamferos de los sedimentos pleistocnicos en el valle de Prescott, condado de Yavapai, Arizona, durante una excavacin que se llev a cabo en 1984. Se describen ejemplares de Mammuthus cf. columbi, Equus cf. conversidens, Camelops, y Bisn de esta localidad. stos son los primeros registros de E. conversidens y Camelops en el condado de Yavapai. El mamut y el caballo fueron subadultos, mientras que el bisonte y camello fueron juveniles. La excelente preservacin del mamut reflej un proceso de enterramiento rpido, y comparaciones con otros mamuts sugirieron que el individuo era un macho pequeo. Una fecha de radiocarbono de 13,410 aos antes del presente, de los sedimentos fluviolacustres recubriendo al mamut, indic una edad del Pleistoceno tardo para la fauna. La naturaleza pastorea de esta fauna indica la presencia de abundantes pastizales en el valle de Prescott durante el fin del Pleistoceno.
41407877|We investigated the importance of size, loss of tail, and running speed of banded geckos (Coleonyx variegatus) in encounters with a predatory snake (Hypsiglena chlorophaea) in experimental arenas. We discovered, contrary to previously reported results and our own hypotheses based on observations in the field, that none of these factors influenced risk of predation, and that autotomy was not used commonly as a tactic to escape predators. Based on these results and observed behavior during predation trials, we question whether tail autotomy in this species is an effective anti-predator adaptation. Investigamos la relevancia del tamao corporal, desprendimiento de la cola, y velocidad de escape de la lagartija (Coleonyx variegatus) en encuentros con el depredador ofidio (Hypsiglena chlorophaea) en arenas experimentales. Descubrimos, contrario a resultados aportados previamente y a nuestras propias hiptesis fundamentadas en observaciones del campo, que ninguno de estos factores influy en el riesgo de la depredacin, y que la autotoma no fue empleada como tctica habitual para escapar de los depredadores.Basndonos en estos resultados y en el comportamiento observado durante las pruebas de la depredacin, cuestionamos si la autotoma caudal en esta especie es una adaptacin efectiva frente a los depredadores.
41407878|Selection of forage by wildlife may drive habitat selection and influence rates of survival and reproduction. To understand patterns in use of forage by elk (Cervus elaphus) in a tallgrass prairie, we collected groups of fecal pellets during 2005-2007 and determined patterns of use based on sTable-isotope ratios of carbon and microhistological analysis. Elk consumed the greatest diversity of forbs during summer and the greatest diversity of grasses during winter. While our study site was dominated by warm-season C-grasses, sTable-isotope analysis indicated that elk consumed primarily C-vegetation (cool-season grasses, forbs, or browse) during summer and winter. La seleccin de forraje por la fauna silvestre puede impulsar la seleccin de habitat e influenciar las tasas de supervivencia y reproduccin. Para comprender los patrones de utilizacin de forraje por los alces (Cervus elaphus) en una pradera de pastos altos, recogimos grupos de pelotillas de heces del 2005 al 2007 y determinamos los patrones de uso en base a la proporcin de istopos esTables de carbono y al anlisis microhistolgico. Los alces consumieron la mayor diversidad de hierbas durante el verano y la mayor diversidad de pastos durante el invierno. Aunque en nuestro sitio de estudio predominaban los pastos de estacin clida tipo C, el anlisis de istopos esTables indic que los alces consumieron principalmente vegetacin tipo C (pastos de estacin fra, hierbas, o forraje leoso) durante el verano y el invierno.
41407879|We measured ingestion by Attwater's pocket gopher (Geomys attwateri) in the coastal prairie of Texas by placing feeding chambers in their tunnels. We constructed a nutrient budget from ingestion, species of plants eaten, and nutrient content of these plants, and we compared it to that for the hispid cotton rat (Sigmodon hispidus), also common in this habitat, and the laboratory rat. Concentration of minerals ingested by G. attwateri appeared sufficient for growth and reproduction. Concentration of protein was lower and concentration of fiber was higher in diets of G attwateri than in diets of S. hispidus or that was required for laboratory rats. High concentration of fiber reduces digestibility and impedes assimilation of protein. We concluded that protein was likely a limiting nutrient and that a low protein:fiber ratio in the diet during summer could be responsible for the observed decline in reproduction in that season. Medimos la ingestin por la tuza (Geomys attwateri) en la pradera costera de Texas colocando cajas de alimentacin en sus tneles. Construimos un presupuesto usando la ingestin, especies de plantas ingeridas, y los nutrientes de estas plantas, y lo comparamos con l de la rata algodonera (Sigmodon hispidus), tambin comn en este habitat, y la rata del laboratorio. La concentracin de minerales ingeridos por G. attwaten pareci suficiente para crecer y reproducirse. La concentracin de la protena fue ms baja y la concentracin de fibra ms alta en dietas de G. attwateri que en dietas de S. hispidus o lo requerido por las ratas del laboratorio. La alta concentracin de fibra reduce la digestin e impide la absorcin de protena. Concluimos que la protena fue probablemente un nutriente limitante y que una proporcin baja de protena: fibra en la dieta durante el verano puede ser responsable de la disminucin observada en la reproduccin de esa estacin.
41407880|Aboveground mounds and underground burrows are multifunctional and influence behavior and habitat of Gunnison's prairie dogs (Cynomys gunnisoni). Four colonies were studied June-September 2004 to examine function of mounds with respect to vigilance for predators, and to estimate magnitude of soil mixed by these prairie dogs. Frequency of vigilance atop mounds increased in taller vegetation and individuals at perimeters of colonies oriented toward the outside more frequently than to the interior of colonies. Mounds accounted for an average of 10,374 kg of soil/ha that was excavated from the burrow. This mass of subsoil moved to the surface and the 7-17 m of air in the burrow make the geomorphic effect of prairie dogs potentially significant. Montculos de tierra construidos en la superficie y madrigueras construidas bajo tierra tienen muchas funciones y afectan el comportamiento y el hbitat de los perritos de las praderas de Gunnison (Cynomys gunnisoni). Cuatro colonias fueron estudiadas de junio a septiembre del 2004 para examinar la funcin de los montculos con relacin a la vigilancia contra depredadores, y para calcular la cantidad de tierra mezclada por estos animales. La frecuencia de los comportamientos de vigilancia encima de los montculos aument en vegetacin ms alta, y los animales en los mrgenes de las colonias se orientaron hacia afuera ms frecuentemente que hacia el interior de las colonias. Los montculos contuvieron un promedio de 10,374 kg de tierra/hectrea excavada de las madrigueras. Esta cantidad de tierra transportada a la superficie, y los 7-17 m del aire en la madriguera, indican que el efecto geomrfico de los perritos de la pradera puede que sea considerable.
41407881|The big red bat, Lasiurus egregius, was known from only four localities in Panama, French Guiana, and Brazil. I report a fifth locality from eastern Honduras, extending the known range >1,200 km to the northwest, well into Central America. On 9 May 1998,1 captured one male and one female in a mist net near Guayabo de Catacamas, Olancho, Honduras. Both specimens were caught over water. The female was lactating and the male was reproductively inactive. This brings the total number of specimens of L. egregius to six worldwide. El murcilago rojo Lasiurus egregius se conoca solamente de cuatro localidades en Panam, Guayana Francesa, y Brasil. Reporto una quinta localidad del oriente de Honduras, la cual extiende la distribucin conocida ms de 1,200 km al noroeste, en pleno interior de Centroamrica. El 9 de mayo de 1998 captur un macho y una hembra en una red de seda cerca de Guayabo de Catacamas, Olancho, Honduras.Ambos especmenes fueron capturados sobre el agua. La hembra estaba lactando y el macho no present actividad reproductiva. Se eleva el nmero de especmenes mundiales de L. egregius a seis.
41407882|In total, 14 new records of birds are reported from coniferous forests and other habitats in the municipality of Nanacamilpa, Tlaxcala, Mexico. These additional records reinforce the supposition that the region is important with respect to conservation of avian diversity in Mexico. Se reportan nuevos registros para 14 especies de aves de bosques de conferas y otros hbitats en el municipio de Nanacamilpa, Tlaxcala, Mxico. Esto registros adicionales enfatizan la importancia de esta regin en la conservacin de la diversidad de aves en Mxico.
41407883|We initially observed native stem-boring beetles (Amphicerus bicaudatus) feeding on stems of invasive tamarisks (Tamanx) at Bonny State Park, Yuma County, in eastern Colorado. At 11 sites in Colorado, Nebraska, and Kansas, we examined tamarisks and the most common co-occurring native tree, eastern cottonwoods (Populus deltoides) , for the occurrence of this beetle. We detected evidence of feeding and development of insects at nine of the sites and in 112 of 579 tamarisks. Among sites, A. bicaudatus occurred in nearly 20% of tamarisks. Only 13 of 480 eastern cottonwoods showed signs of activity by A. bicaudatus. During dissections of stems of tamarisks, nearly 90% of adult beetles were in live versus dead stems. Inicialmente observamos la especie nativa de escarabajo barrenador (Amphicerus bicaudatus) alimentndose de tallos de una especie invasora del gnero Tamanx en Bonny State Park, condado de Yuma, al este de Colorado. En 11 reas en Colorado, Nebraska y Kansas, examinamos tamariscos y la especie nativa ms comn con ellos, el lamo Populus deltoides, para la presencia del barrenador. Detectamos evidencia de la alimentacin y del desarrollo de este insecto en nueve de las reas y en 112 de los 579 (20%) tamariscos. Slo 13 de unos 480 P. deltoides mostraron actividad de A. bicaudatus. Durante las disecciones de tallos de tamariscos, encontramos cerca del 90% de los barrenadores adultos en tallos vivos en comparacin con los tallos muertos.
41407884|Three new records of late Pleistocene fossil peccaries come from localities in western Oklahoma and improve on the only previous record from the state. Isolated occurrences of partial jaws at Rush Creek, Grady County, and south of Yukon, Canadian County, represent the flat-headed peccary, Platygonus compressus.An assemblage with three taxa of mammals from a canal near the Quartz Mountains, Jackson County, includes a prairie dog Cynomys, a mammoth Mammuthus, and an unidentified peccary, Tayassuidae indeterminate. The last of these specimens includes a well-preserved skeleton of a foot, partial upper tusk, and occipital condyle. Tres registros nuevos de pecares fsiles del Pleistoceno tardo proceden de localidades en el oeste de Oklahoma y mejoran el nico registro previo del estado. Hallazgos aislados de las mandbulas parciales en Rush Creek, condado de Grady, y al sur de Yukon, condado de Canadian, representan al pcari de cabeza plana, Platygonus compressus. Un conjunto de tres taxa de mamferos de un canal cerca de la Quartz Mountain, condado de Jackson, incluye un perro llanero Cynomys, un mamut Mammuthus, y un pcar sin identificar, Tayassuidae indeterminado. El ltimo de estos especmenes incluye un esqueleto de pie bien conservado, un colmillo superior parcial, y un cndilo occipital.
41407885|We report the first record of the jaguarundi (Puma yagouaroundi) in the state of Guanajuato, Mexico. This record expands the distribution of this species by 117 km to the west into the Mexican Central Plateau and increases the number of species of felids reported in Guanajuato to five. Reportamos el primer registro del jaguarundi (Puma yagouaroundi) en el estado de Guanajuato, Mxico. Este registro ampla la distribucin de la especie en 117 km al oeste dentro del Altiplano Mexicano e incrementa el nmero de especies de felinos reportados en Guanajuato a cinco.
41407886|Fragmentation of habitats and distance between drainages in the semi-arid Lower Colorado River Basin has contributed to development of disjunct populations of caddisflies in the region. Caddisflies in streams cluster into discrete regional assemblages in the basin with significantly different assemblages.Distances between drainages in Arizona will likely increase genetic drift in disjunct populations of caddisflies and further reduce genetic variability, which may be important in conservation. La fragmentacin del hbitat y la distancia entre drenajes en la cuenca baja semi-rida del ro Colorado, EEUU, han contribuido al desarrollo de poblaciones aisladas de frganos en la regin. Frganos de arroyos se agrupan en ensamblajes regionales distintos en la cuenca con ensamblajes significativamente diferentes. Las distancias entre drenajes en Arizona probablemente incrementarn la separacin gentica entre poblaciones aisladas de frganos y reducirn aun ms la variedad gentica, la cual puede ser importante en la conservacin.
41407887|The wetland plant Ludwigia peploides (floating primrose-willow) often is problematic in the southern USA, as well as elsewhere in its introduced range. Surveys to identify potential herbivorous insects to use as biological controls have focused on South America, but implementing a management program with foreign insects in the USA is difficult and can take years of testing in quarantine. During 2006-2008, populations of floating primrose-willow were surveyed in the southern USA to determine presence and extent of native herbivorous insects. At least nine species were identified, represented mainly by weevils (Curculionidae) and leaf beetles (Chrysomelidae). Of these, two were undescribed species of weevils (Auleutes), and six species, including Tyloderma sphaerocarpae and Chaetocnema, have never been associated with floating primrose-willow. La planta del pantano Ludwigia peploides es a menudo problemtica en el sur de los EEUU as como en otras partes de su distribucin geogrfica introducida. Mustreos para identificar insectos herbvoros potenciales para usar como agentes de control biolgico se han enfocado en Sudamrica, pero aplicar un programa de manejo con insectos forneos en los EEUU es difcil y podra tomar aos probndolo en cuarentena. Del 2006 al 2008, poblaciones de L. peploides en el sur de los EEUU fueron muestreadas para determinar la presencia y la abundancia de insectos herbvoros nativos. Por lo menos nueve especies fueron identificadas, principalmente gorgojos (Curculionidae) y escarabajos de la hoja (Chrysomelidae). De esas, dos fueron especies de Auleutes no descritas, y seis especies, inclusive Tyloderma sphaerocarpae y Chaetocnema, que nunca antes fueron asociadas con L. peploides.
23258035|To document hybridization in the Dichanthelium acuminatum complex of plants, 91 specimens were collected in southeastern Texas and assayed to determine their PCR-RFLP genotype. Two putative hybrids were confirmed as hybrids using GBSSI sequence data. Additionally, provisional evidence of the hybrid status of the specimens identified with the molecular marker was provided by multivariate analysis of a morphological dataset containing the two putative hybrid specimens and representative specimens of other members of the D. acuminatum complex. Our results provide provisional evidence for the role of hybridization in producing intermediate phenotypes. Para documentar la hibridacin en el complejo de plantas de Dichanthelium acuminatum, colectamos 91 especmenes en el sureste de Texas, y los analizamos para determinar sus genotipos PCR-RFLP. Confirmamos dos hbridos putativos por medio de los datos de secuencia de GBSSI. Adems, evidencia provisional del estado hbrido de los especmenes identificados con el marcador molecular fue provedo por un anlisis multivariable de datos morfolgicos conteniendo los dos especmenes hbridos putativos y otros miembros representativos del complejo D. acuminatum. Nuestros resultados proveen evidencia provisional para el papel de hibridacin en la produccin de fenotipos intermedios.
23258036|We compared abundance and nesting success of dickcissels (Spiza americana) between exoticgrass and restored native-grass sites in the Blackland Prairie Region of east-central Texas during MarchJuly 2007 and 2008. Abundance of dickcissels was 44% greater on restored than on exotic sites, but the difference was not significant. Daily survival of nests was 0.895  0.013 SE on restored and 0.930  0.017 on exotic sites; there was no significant difference between restored and exotic sites. Mean height of nest was 56% higher on restored sites, mean height of nesting substrate was 58% higher on restored sites, and detectability was greater on restored sites than on exotic sites. The relatively small restored sites we studied did not improve daily survival of nests and may have acted as ecological traps, with the result being a lower proportion of successful nests, lower daily survival of nests, and higher relative abundance of dickcissels. Comparamos la abundancia y el xito de anidamiento del arrocero americano (Spiza americana) entre sitios de pasto extico y de pasto nativo restaurado en Blackland Prairie Region del centro-oriental de Texas durante marzo a julio de 2007 y 2008. La abundancia de arroceros fue 44% mayor en sitios restaurados que en los de pasto extico, pero la diferencia no fue significativa. La tasa diaria de supervivencia de nidos en sitios restaurados fue 0.895  0.013 SE y para los exticos fue 0.930  0.017 SE; la diferencia no fue significativa entre sitios exticos y restaurados. La altura promedio de nidos fue 56% ms alta en sitios restaurados, la altura promedio del sustrato de nidos fue 58% ms alta en sitios restaurados y la posibilidad de detectar nidos fue mayor en sitios restaurados que en sitios exticos. El rea relativamente pequea de los sitios restaurados estudiados, no mejor la supervivencia diaria de nidos y puede haber actuado como trampas ecolgicas, dando como resultado menor proporcin de nidos con xito, menor tasa diaria de supervivencia y una abundancia relativa mayor del arrocero americano.
23258037|For 14 months, we monitored burrow fidelity of 16 PIT-tagged female tarantulas (Aphonopelma hollyi). During this time, all of them abandoned their burrows. Using multiple-regression analyses, we determined that the model including maximum air temperature, cumulative monthly precipitation, and days of precipitation per month accounted for 48.82% of the variation explaining the percentage of females remaining in their burrow at each monthly interval. After controlling for seasonal effects of photoperiod or solar radiation, days of measurable precipitation was the only variable that made a significant contribution to the model. Tarantulas may respond to instability in the soil caused by intermittent heavy rainfall by abandoning their burrows. Por 14 meses, utilizamos Transpondedores Integrados Pasivos (marcadores PIT, por sus siglas en ingls) para monitorear la fidelidad a la madriguera de 16 hembras de la tarntula Aphonopelma hollyi. Durante este tiempo, todas las hembras abandonaron sus madrigueras. Utilizando anlisis de regresin mltiple, determinamos que el modelo que incluye la temperatura mxima del aire, la precipitacin mensual acumulada y los das de precipitacin por mes represent el 48.82% de la variacin que explica el porcentaje de hembras que permanecen en sus madrigueras en cada intervalo mensual. Despus de controlar efectos estacionales de fotoperodo o radiacin solar, la variable de das de precipitacin medibles fue la nica que contribuy significativamente al modelo. Puede ser que las tarntulas responden a la inestabilidad en el suelo causada por fuertes lluvias intermitentes abandonando sus madrigueras.
23258038|Comparisons of assemblages of rodents along the Rio Grande in Big Bend National Park, Brewster County, Texas, were made using recent (20092010) and historic (1977) data to evaluate the effects of invasion by saltcedars (Tamarix). Comparisons of abundances and species of rodents between sites with mesquites (Prosopis), cottonwoods (Populus), or saltcedars revealed no significant difference between habitats. Comparisons of recent and historic assemblages of rodents suggested low turnover of species, but structure of assemblages differed between studies. The western harvest mouse (Reithrodontomys megalotis) was an addition to the riparian fauna and neither the silky pocket mouse (Perognathus flavus) nor Nelson's pocket mouse (Chaetodipus nelsoni) was captured during the recent assessment. Differences in assemblages may be caused by shifts in riparian plants toward a more closed canopy or by recolonization following flooding. Comunidades de roedores a lo largo del ro Grande en el Parque Nacional Big Bend, condado de Brewster, Texas, fueron comparadas usando registros recientes (20092010) e histricos (1977) para evaluar los efectos de la especie invasora tamarisco (Tamarix). Comparaciones de las especies y abundancias de roedores en lugares con mezquites (Prosopis), lamos (Populus) y tamariscos no revelaron diferencias significativas entre estos hbitats. Comparaciones de los registros recientes y de los histricos, sugirieron baja tasa de cambio de especies, pero la estructura de estas comunidades vari entre los estudios. El ratn cosechero comn (Reithrodontomys megalotis) fue un nuevo registro para la fauna riverea, y ni el ratn de abazones sedosos (Perognathus flavus) ni la rata de abazones de Nelson (Chaetodipus nelsoni) fueron capturados durante el muestreo reciente. Diferencias en la estructura de estas comunidades son posiblemente causadas por los cambios en la vegetacin riverea la cual tiende a un tipo de bosque ms cerrado o la recolonizacin despus de inundaciones.
23258039|We report packed-cell volume and values of aspartate aminotransferase, calcium, creatine kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, total protein, triglycerides, and uric acid in plasma of 154 scaled quail (Callipepla squamata) captured during February-April 1999 and 2000 in Cochran County, Texas. Values for packed-cell volume, calcium, total protein, and uric acid were in the normal range for birds. Aspartate aminotransferase, creatine kinase, and lactate dehydrogenase were elevated as a result of stress experienced while in the trap. Se presenta el volumen de contenido celular el y los valores de la aspartato aminotransferasa, calcio, creatina quinasa, lactato deshidrogenasa, protenas totales, triglicridos, y cido rico de 154 codornices escamosas (Callipepla squamata) capturadas durante febrero-abril de 1999 y 2000 en el condado de Cochran, Texas. Los valores del volumen de contenido celular, calcio, protenas totales, y cido rico se encontraron en el rango normal para aves. Aspartato aminotransferasa, creatina quinasa y lactato deshidrogenasa se elevaron a consecuencia del estrs mientras las codornices estuvieron en la trampa.
23258040|We studied sexual dimorphism, reproduction, thermal ecology, and diet of Xenosaurus rectocollaris in Tehuacan Valley, Puebla, Mexico. Females were significantly larger than males, but there was no significant sexual dimorphism in size of head or length of femur. Mean size of litter was 2.6  0.3 (range, 14) and size of litter was not related to size of female. Mean body temperature was 23.2C. Pregnant females had higher body temperatures than non-pregnant females. Adult coleopterans dominated the diet. Ecological traits of this population were within the range previously observed in Xenosaurus. Estudiamos el dimorfismo sexual, reproduccin, ecologa trmica, y dieta de una poblacin no estudiada de Xenosaurus rectocollaris que habita el Valle de Tehuacan, Puebla, Mxico. Las hembras fueron significativamente ms grandes que los machos, pero no hubo un dimorfismo sexual significativo en el tamao de la cabeza o longitud del fmur. El promedio del tamao de la camada fue 2.6  0.3 (intervalo, 1 4), y ste no estuvo relacionado al tamao de la hembra. El promedio de temperatura corporal fue de 23.2C. Las hembras preadas tuvieron temperaturas corporales ms altas que las no preadas. Los colepteros adultos dominaron la dieta. Las caractersticas ecolgicas de esta poblacin caen dentro del intervalo de variacin previamente observado en Xenosaurus.
23258041|During 10-weeks, visual-encounter surveys were conducted on the Georgetown salamander Eurycea naufragia at a spring pool in Williamson County, Texas. There was no significant difference in number of salamanders observed or percentage of objects used as cover between surveys in mornings and afternoons. Number of salamanders detected and percentage of objects used as cover were not correlated significantly with any environmental variable that was assessed. These results suggest that visual-encounter surveys conducted during daylight hours are not biased by time of day. Durante un periodo de 10 semanas se realizaron muestreos visuales de la salamandra de Georgetown, Eurycea naufragia, en un manantial en el condado de Williamson, Texas. No hubo diferencias significativas en el nmero de salamandras observadas o el porcentaje de objetos utilizados como escondite entre los muestreos realizados durante las maanas o las tardes. No existi ninguna correlacin entre el nmero de salamandras encontradas ni el porcentaje de objetos utilizados como escondite con las otras variables ambientales que fueron medidas. Estos resultados sugieren que los muestreos visuales realizados durante el da no estn sesgados entre las diferentes horas del da.
23258042|This study addressed the effects that cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum) had on populations of the North American deermouse (Peromyscus maniculatus) at Antelope Island State Park, Davis County, Utah. Linear regression revealed a significant negative relationship between cover of cheatgrass and relative abundance of North American deermice. These results concur with conclusions of others suggesting that cheatgrass negatively impacts abundance of rodents. Este estudio consider los efectos que Bromus tectorum impone a las poblaciones de Peromyscus maniculatus en el Parque Estatal Antelope Island, condado de Davis, Utah. Regresin lineal indic una relacin negativa significativa entre la cobertura de B. tectorum y la abundancia relativa de P. maniculatus. Estos resultados coinciden con las conclusiones de otros que sugieren que B. tectorum afecta negativamente la abundancia de roedores.
23258043|We monitored movements of 27 radiocollared females of the San Clemente Island fox (Urocyon littoralis clementae) during 2007 to determine the proportion that produced litters, number of offspring in weaned litters, chronology of reproduction, and characteristics of denning sites. Of 23 females, three or four produced a total of six pups. Of 13 recaptured and examined for reproductive status, most had lactated in previous years (n = 7) or had some evidence of lactating but not weaning pups (n = 4); two females had never lactated. Breeding and parturition occurred 2 months earlier than reported for other subspecies of island foxes in wild-born or captive-breeding populations since the 1970s. Females used two or three dens in succession and dens were almost exclusively in rock crevices. Five of 23 foxes had home ranges that included sources of supplemental food and human habitation, including all four females observed with pups, suggesting this could be a factor in reproductive success. Seguimos los movimientos de 27 hembras del zorros isleos (Urocyon littoralis clementae) con collares de radiotransmisores en el 2007 para determinar la proporcin de las que parieron, el nmero de cras destetadas, la cronologa de la reproduccin, y las caractersticas de las madrigueras. Solamente tres o cuatro de las 23 hembras parieron un total de seis cachorros. De las 13 hembras que fueron recapturadas y examinadas para determinar su estado reproductor, la mayora haba lactado en aos previos (n = 7) o mostraban evidencia de lactancia pero no de cachorros destetados (n = 4); y dos hembras no haban lactado. Apareamientos y partos ocurrieron 2 meses antes de lo reportado previamente para otras poblaciones de subespecies de zorros isleos de poblaciones silvestres o en cautiverio desde la dcada de los 1970. Las hembras usaron dos o tres madrigueras en sucesin y estas fueron situadas casi exclusivamente en grietas rocosas. Cinco de las 23 zorras tuvieron rangos de hogar que incluan fuentes de alimentos suplementarios y asentamientos humanos, incluyendo las cuatro hembras con cachorros, sugiriendo que esto puede ser un factor para el xito reproductivo.
23258044|To identify activity patterns and distribution of gray foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) in chaparral and sage-scrub habitat in southern California, we used radiotelemetry to monitor 18 foxes during May 1997 April 1999. For comparison, we used simultaneously collected telemetry data on sympatric coyotes (Canis latrans) and bobcats (Lynx rufus). Gray foxes mainly were crepuscular and nocturnal with a daily activity rate of 60% in the summer dry season and 56% in the winter wet season. Gray foxes preferred northern mixed chaparral, used coastal sage scrub and coast live oak woodland more than chamise chaparral, had non-preference for valley oak woodland and non-native grassland, and did not use developed suburban areas. These data, in comparison with behavioral data for other carnivores, support the contention that sympatric carnivores, mainly coyotes but possibly bobcats, may strongly influence the population of gray foxes in southern California, as gray foxes appear to avoid times and habitats where risk of predation is high. Para identificar los patrones de actividad y la distribucin de zorros grises (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) en el chaparral y matorral costero de salvia en el sur de California, utilizamos radiotelemetra para monitorear 18 zorros durante mayo 1997abril 1999. Para la comparacin, utilizamos datos de telemetra colectados simultneamente de coyotes (Canis latrans) y gatos monteses (Lynx rufus) simptricos. Los zorros grises fueron principalmente crepusculares y nocturnos con una tasa de actividad diaria del 60% durante el verano que correspondi a la temporada seca, y del 56 % durante el invierno o temporada de lluvia. Los zorros prefirieron el chaparral norteo mixto, usaron el matorral costero de salvia y el bosque costero de encino ms que el chaparral de chamise, no mostraron seleccin por el bosque de roble de los valles ni por el pastizal no nativo, y no utilizaron reas suburbanas desarrolladas. Estos datos, en comparacin con datos sobre el comportamiento de otros carnvoros, apoyan el argumento de que los carnvoros simptricos, principalmente los coyotes pero posiblemente los gatos monteses, pueden influenciar fuertemente a la poblacin de zorros grises del sur de California, debido a que los zorros parecen evadir las horas y el hbitat en donde el riesgo de depredacin es alto.
23258045|We used data on alleles of seven polymorphic microsatellite loci in 142 individuals of the star cactus Astrophytum asterias from five subpopulations to estimate genetic parameters. Four of the subpopulations had high levels of heterozygosity and allelic diversity compatible with efficient outcrossing, and low F ST -values that suggested high rates of gametic gene flow effected by winged-insect pollinators. The fifth subpopulation that was small and occupied the smallest area had low levels of heterozygosity and allelic diversity, which can be caused by small populations, inbreeding, geographic isolation, and founder effect. Our research indicated that all subpopulations, except one, were genetically suitable sources of propagules for reintroduction or for augmentation of other populations. Utilizamos datos de los alelos de siete loci polimrficos de microsatlites en 142 individuos del cactus Astrophytum asterias provenientes de cinco subpoblaciones para estimar los parmetros genticos. Cuatro de las subpoblaciones mostraron altos niveles de heterozigosidad y diversidad allica, siendo compatibles con cruzamiento exgeno eficiente, y bajos valores de F ST , los cuales sugirieron flujo gamtico de genes intermediados por insectos voladores como polinizadores. La quinta subpoblacin, que era pequea y ocupaba el rea ms pequea, mostr bajos niveles de heterozigosidad y diversidad allica, lo que puede ser consecuencia de un pequeo tamao poblacional, endogamia, aislamiento geogrfico y el efecto de fundadores. Nuestra investigacin indic que todas las subpoblaciones, menos una, eran genticamente apropiadas para servir como fuentes para la reintroduccin de la especie o el aumento de otras poblaciones.
23258046|We investigated indirect effects of wind turbines on nesting success of scissor-tailed flycatchers (Tyrannus forficatus). We tracked the fate of 32 nests at Wolf Ridge Wind, LLC, Cooke County, Texas, during the breeding season in 2009. Overall rates of predation on nests were high, reproductive success was low, daily rates of survival were only 93.5%, only 16% of nests fledged 1 offspring, and nests had only a 13.3% chance of survival from initiation to fledging. Amount of canopy cover and distance to nearest turbine best predicted success or failure of nests; nests with less canopy cover that were closer to a wind turbine had a higher daily rate of survival than nests with more canopy cover farther away. Less canopy cover might be associated with fewer terrestrial or arboreal predators on nests, while proximity to turbines might reduce aerial predation on nests. Investigamos los efectos indirectos de las turbinas de viento en el xito reproductivo del papamoscas tijereta (Tyrannus forficatus). Rastreamos los fines de 32 nidos en Wolf Ridge Wind, LLC, condado de Cooke, Texas, durante la temporada reproductiva del 2009. Las tasas de depredacin de nidos en general fueron altas y el xito reproductivo fue bajo, con las tasas de sobrevivencia por da de slo 93.5%, slo 16% de los nidos produjeron 1 cras, y los nidos tuvieron una oportunidad de sobrevivir desde el inicio del nido hasta la salida de los volantones de slo 13.3%. La cantidad de la cobertura del dosel y la distancia a la turbina ms prxima predijeron mejor el xito o el fracaso del nido; nidos con menos cobertura del dosel y ms cerca a la turbina ms prxima tuvieron una tasa de sobrevivencia por da ms alta que los que construyeron ms lejos y con ms cobertura del dosel. Menos cobertura del dosel puede estar asociada con menos depredadores terrestres o arbreos del nido, mientras que la proximidad a la turbina puede reducir la frecuencia de los depredadores areos del nido.
23258047|Communal nesting has been observed frequently in arboreal squirrels of the genus Sciurus and Glaucomys, but only occasionally in Tamiasciurus. During 2006 and 2007, we trapped and radiocollared 38 adult Mearns's squirrels (Tamiasciurus mearnsi) in Baja California, Mexico, to examine their nesting behavior. We report for the first time instances of communal nesting in Mearns's squirrels. Same-sex groups were more common than mixed-sex groups. Females engaged more in communal nesting than males. Communal nesting behavior in Mearns's squirrels seems to be similar to other species of arboreal squirrels; decreasing as mean monthly temperature increases and during the breeding season. La anidacin comunal ha sido observada frecuentemente en ardillas arborcolas del gnero Sciurus y Glaucomys, pero slo ocasionalmente en Tamiasciurus. Durante 2006 y 2007, atrapamos y pusimos radio collares a 38 ardillas adultas de San Pedro Mrtir (Tamiasciurus mearnsi) en Baja California, Mxico, para examinar su comportamiento de anidacin. Reportamos por primera vez casos de anidacin comunal en las ardillas de San Pedro Mrtir. Grupos del mismo sexo fueron ms comunes que grupos de sexo mixto. Las hembras participaron ms en anidacin comunal que los machos. El comportamiento de anidacin comunal en las ardillas de San Pedro Mrtir parece ser similar a otras especies de ardillas arborcolas; disminuyendo conforme la temperatura media mensual aumenta y durante la temporada reproductiva.
23258048|We captured and placed radiotransmitters on 27, 37, and 51 female Rio Grande turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo intermedia) on the Encino, Norias, and Laureles divisions of King Ranch, respectively, in Brooks, Kenedy, and Kleberg counties, Texas. Mean annual sizes of home ranges were 8385,867 ha, which were larger than most individual holdings of private property in Texas. Conservation plans should take this into consideration. Capturamos y fijamos radiotransmisores en 27, 37, y 51 hembras del pavo silvestre (Meleagris gallopavo intermedia) del ro Grande en las divisiones Encino, Norias, y Laureles del rancho King, respectivamente, en los condados de Brooks, Kenedy, y Kleberg en Texas. Los tamaos promedios anuales del rango de hogar fueron de 838 a 5,867 ha, los cuales fueron de mayor tamao que la mayora del tamao de las propiedades privadas en Texas. Los planes de conservacin deberan considerar la relevancia de estos resultados.
23258049|Three caves in Guadalupe Mountains National Park, Culberson County, Texas, are closely grouped spatially, and their fossil-bearing sediments are about the same late Pleistocene age. Publications concerning two of the caves, Upper Sloth Cave and Lower Sloth Cave, list and discuss their fossil faunas. Here, we add identifications of mammals from the third site, Dust Cave, and briefly comment on selected taxa. Tamias canipes or T. quadrivittatus (gray-footed or Colorado chipmunk), Tamias minimus (least chipmunk), Reithrodontomys (harvest mouse), Sigmodon ochrognathus (yellow-nosed cotton rat), Aztlanolagus agilis (Aztln rabbit), and Sorex nanus (dwarf shrew) are added to the faunal list of the cave complex. More questionable identifications of taxa not recorded from the other caves include Ictidomys tridecemlineatus (thirteen-lined ground squirrel), Thomomys talpoides (northern pocket gopher), and Capromeryx (miniature pronghorns). Reexamination of several taxa from the Sloth caves did not confirm published records of Cryptotis parva (least shrew), but added Sorex merriami (Merriam's shrew) and confirmed the presence of Neotoma mexicana (Mexican woodrat) and Sorex cinereus (masked shrew). Tres cuevas en el Parque Nacional Guadalupe Mountains, condado de Culberson, Texas, estn cerca de si, y sus sedimentos con fsiles representan aproximadamente el mismo periodo del pleistoceno tardo. Las publicaciones con respecto a dos de las cuevas, Upper Sloth Cave y Lower Sloth Cave, enlistan y discuten su fauna fsil. Aqu, agregamos identificaciones de mamferos de la tercera cueva, Dust Cave, y brevemente comentamos sobre algunos taxa seleccionados. Tamias canipes o T. quadrivittatus (ardilla de pata gris o ardilla de Colorado), Tamias minimus (ardilla rayada menor), Reithrodontomys (ratn de cosecha), Sigmodon ochrognathus (rata algodonera de nariz amarilla), Aztlanolagus agilis (conejo de Aztln), y Sorex nanus (musaraa enana) son aadidas a la lista de la fauna del complejo de cuevas. Identificacin menos confiable de otros taxa que no fueron registrados para las otras cuevas incluyen Ictidomys tridecemlineatus (ardilla de tierra de trece lneas), Thomomys talpoides (tuza nortea), y Capromeryx (antlope miniatura). La revisin de varios taxa de las dos cuevas de Sloth no confirm los registros publicados de Cryptotis parva (musaraa menor), pero agreg Sorex merriami (musaraa de Merriam) y confirm la presencia de Neotoma mexicana (rata maderera) y Sorex cinereus (musaraa enmascarada).
23258050|The marbled whiptail (Aspidoscelis marmorata) is a common lizard within the Chihuahuan Desert of the United StatesMexico borderlands. We report a patternless female from the MescaleroMonahans Shinnery Sands Ecosystem in southeastern New Mexico. One previous record of this pattern has been noted in the literature and this unique morphology has not been investigated thoroughly. El huico texano (Aspidoscelis marmorata) es una especie de lagartija comn en el desierto de Chihuahua en la frontera Mxico-Estados Unidos. Reportamos la ocurrencia de una hembra sin patrn en el ecosistema arenoso MescaleroMonahans en el sureste de Nuevo Mxico. Un patrn similar al reportado en este estudio se presenta en la literatura, pero este patrn morfolgico nico no ha sido investigado a fondo.
23258051|Sperm competition, where sperm from more than one male competes to fertilize eggs within the reproductive tract of a female, is prevalent in mammals. In rodents, this competition often has led to copulatory plugs, a passive defense against further sperm competition. Copulatory plugs have been reported in many species of sciurids; however, not in round-tailed ground squirrels (Xerospermophilus tereticaudus). Here we report two observations of copulatory plugs in round-tailed ground squirrels and suggest they represent an indirect form of mate guarding in affording males a chance to seek additional mating opportunities as seen in other species of rodents. La competencia de esperma, en la que el esperma de mltiples machos compite por fertilizar vulos en el tracto reproductivo femenino, es comn en los mamferos. En roedores, esta competencia comnmente ha generado tapones copulativos, la cual es una defensa pasiva contra la posterior competencia de esperma. Los tapones copulativos han sido reportados en varias especies de sciridos, pero no en las ardillas de cola redonda (Xerospermophilus tereticaudus). Aqu reportamos dos observaciones de tapones copulativos en X. tereticaudus y sugerimos que estos representan una forma indirecta para proteger a la pareja de otros machos y al mismo tiempo brinda a los machos la posibilidad de buscar adicionales oportunidades reproductivas como ha sido observado en otras especies de roedores.
23258052|We collected 327 Peromyscus truei (pinyon deermice), 211 P. maniculatus (North American deermice), and 38 P. leucopus (white-footed deermice) on Fort Carson Military Reservation, Pueblo County, Colorado, during MayJune 2007. The deermice hosted 408 fleas including 238 Aetheca wagneri, 169 Orchopeas leucopus, and 1 Meringis parkeri. Both A. wagneri and O. leucopus were on all species of deermice. Prevalence of fleas was 42.1% for P. leucopus, 36.4% for P. truei, and 35.1% for P. maniculatus. Prevalence of O. leucopus was significantly greater for P. truei (43.1%) than for P. maniculatus (13.7%) and P. leucopus (13.2%). Conversely, P. maniculatus (52.1%) had a significantly greater prevalence of A. wagneri than either P. leucopus (47.1%) or P. truei (33.6%). Colectamos 327 Peromyscus truei (ratones pionero), 211 P. maniculatus (ratones ciervo), y 38 P. leucopus (ratones de patas blanca) durante mayo a junio del 2007 en la Reserva Militar de Fort Carson, condado de Pueblo, Colorado, USA. Los ratones albergaron a 408 pulgas, incluyendo a 238 Aetheca wagneri, 169 Orchopeas leucopus, y 1 Meringis parkeri. Ambos A. wagneri y O. leucopus fueron encontrados en todas especies del ratn. La prevalencia de infestacin de pulgas fue el 42.1% en P. leucopus, el 36.4% en P. truei, y el 35.1% en P. maniculatus. La prevalencia de O. leucopus fue significativamente mayor en P. truei (43.1%) comparado con P. maniculatus (13.7%) y P. leucopus (13.2%). Inversamente, P. maniculatus (52.1%) tuvo la prevalencia de A. wagneri significativamente mayor que P. leucopus (47.1%) o P. truei (33.6%).
23258053|We document breeding behavior of the endangered black-capped vireo (Vireo atricapilla) in urban areas of Monterrey, Nuevo Len, Mexico. More surveys are needed to locate breeding populations in submontane scrublands near urban areas. Documentamos el comportamiento reproductivo del Vireo Gorra Negra en reas urbanas de Monterrey en Nuevo Len, Mxico. Ms muestreos son necesarios para localizar poblaciones anidantes en matorrales submontaosos cercanos a reas urbanas.
23258054|During 20072008, we counted fecal deposits (n = 266) of coyotes (Canis latrans) and lagomorphs in Joshua Tree National Park, San Bernardino and Riverside counties, California, as a measure of relative abundance along 473 (115,336 m) transects in three habitats differing in degree of activity by humans. We recorded abundance of lagomorphs and characteristics of habitats. Relative use of campgrounds by coyotes was greater than use of wilderness or day-use areas for all sampling periods. There was no significant relationship between relative abundance of coyotes, lagomorphs, and small mammals, but there was a positive relation between abundance of coyotes and presence of boulders. Durante 20072008, contamos deposiciones de heces (n = 266) de coyotes (Canis latrans) y lagomorfos en el Joshua Tree National Park, en los condados de San Bernardino y Riverside, California, como estimacin de abundancia relativa a lo largo de 473 transectos (115,336 m) en tres hbitats con diferente grado de actividad humana. Registramos la abundancia de lagomorfos y caractersticas de hbitats. El uso relativo de zonas de acampar por los coyotes fue mayor que el uso de reas silvestres o reas de uso diario en todos los periodos de muestreos. No hubo una relacin significativa entre abundancia relativa de coyotes, lagomorfos y pequeos mamferos, pero hubo una relacin positiva entre la abundancia de coyotes y la presencia de rocas grandes.
23258055|We document new geographic records in Arkansas based on the collection of 179 individual riverine fishes, representing four taxa within three families. We include new records and extensions of known geographic ranges for rarely collected species, including the shoal chub (Macrhybopsis hyostoma) and silverband shiner (Notropis shumardi) in the lower Arkansas River, and the scaly sand darter (Ammocrypta vivax) in the White River. We also document new records for an S1-ranked and species of greatest conservation need, the stonecat (Noturus flavus), which is reported from Arkansas for only the second time since its original discovery in the state >37 years ago. Documentamos nuevos registros geogrficos en Arkansas provenientes de la coleccin de 179 peces ribereos, que representan cuatro taxa dentro de tres familias. Se incluyen nuevos registros y extensiones de la distribucin geogrfica conocida de unas especies rara vez recogidas, incluyendo las carpas Macrhybopsis hyostoma y Notropis shumardi en la parte baja del ro Arkansas y la perca Ammocrypta vivax en el ro Blanco. Adems documentamos nuevos registros para Noturus flavus, una especie enlistada como S1 y entre las especies de mayor necesidad de conservacin. Es slo el segundo registro para esta especie en Arkansas desde su descubrimiento inicial en el estado hace ms de 37 aos.
23258056|We assessed geographical range of pacas Cuniculus paca in the northern Neotropics based on historical and recent records. We report two new records from Tamaulipas and Hidalgo. These records confirm presence of pacas in this region and support our proposed geographical range along lower elevations of eastern slopes of the Sierra Madre Oriental in Mexico. Evaluamos el rango geogrfico del tepezcuintle Cuniculus paca en el norte del Neotrpico a partir de registros histricos y recientes. Reportamos dos nuevos registros de C. paca para Tamaulipas e Hidalgo. Estos registros confirman su presencia en la regin y tambin apoyan nuestra propuesta del rango geogrfico a lo largo de las zonas bajas de la vertiente este de la Sierra Madre Oriental en Mxico.
23258057|During a study of rodents at Cerro Peln, Oaxaca, Mexico, in the northwestern portion of the Sierra Madre de Oaxaca physiographic subprovince, we collected three Chinanteco deermice Habromys chinanteco. This microendemic rodent is rare in terms of habitat and population, and had not been collected in the wild since 1975. These records corroborate continuing presence of H. chinanteco in this region. Durante un estudio sobre roedores en la localidad de Cerro Peln, ubicado en la parte noroeste de la subprovincia fisiogrfica de la Sierra Madre de Oaxaca, Mxico, colectamos tres individuos del pequeo ratn roedor arborcola Habromys chinanteco. Este roedor microendmico es raro en trminos de hbitat y poblaciones, el cual no haba sido colectado en campo desde 1975. Estos registros corroboran la continua presencia de H. chinanteco en esta regin.
23258058|We examined 12 hog-nosed skunks (Conepatus leuconotus) from southern Texas and central Tamaulipas, Mexico, during 20042009. We amplified the entire mitochondrial-DNA control region (D-loop) from three individuals. Results indicated that these sequences were from distinct maternal lineages with 15 variable sites. However, when reduced and compared to previously published sequences, we observed a low overall pairwise difference of 0.1% (SE = 0.1%). Our results suggest that hog-nosed skunks are persisting along the Gulf Coast region of southern Texas and northern Mexico. Examinamos 12 zorrillos de lomo blanco (Conepatus leuconotus) del sur de Texas y de la regin central de Tamaulipas, Mxico, durante 20042009. Amplificamos en su totalidad la regin control de ADN mitocondrial (D-loop) de tres individuos. Los resultados indicaron que estas secuencias fueron de linajes maternos distintos con 15 sitios variables. Sin embargo, cuando se redujeron y se compararon con las secuencias previamente publicadas, se observ una diferencia general baja de 0.1% (EE = 0.1%). Nuestros resultados sugieren que el zorrillo de lomo blanco persiste en la regin costera del golfo de Mxico del sur de Texas y del norte de Mxico.
23258009|DNA sequences from the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene were examined in individuals of the hispid cotton rat (Sigmodon hispidus eremicus) collected from an isolated population in southwestern Arizona. Analyses indicated unique DNA substitutions and haplotypes that were restricted to the population in Arizona and an overall genetic affiliation to populations of the western lineage of S. hispidus, particularly to the population from Otero County, New Mexico. Estimates of time since divergence indicated an allopatric relationship with other populations of S. hispidus 150,000 years ago. Additionally, data obtained from analyses of amplified fragment-length polymorphisms indicated that S. h. eremicus exhibits lower genetic diversity compared to other populations. Together, these data along with detection of two replacements of apomorphic nonsynonymous amino acids and genetic divergence among amplified length polymorphisms argue that S. h. eremicus is unique from other populations of S. hispidus and that conservation considerations are encouraged. Secuencias de ADN del gen mitocondrial de citocromo-b fueron examinadas en individuos de la rata algodonera crespa (Sigmodon hispidus eremicus) colectadas de una poblacin aislada del suroeste de Arizona. Los anlisis indicaron substituciones nicas de ADN y haplotipos que estuvieron restringidos a la poblacin en Arizona, y una afiliacin gentica en general a poblaciones del linaje oeste de S. hispidus, particularmente a una poblacin del condado de Otero, en Nuevo Mxico. Estimaciones del tiempo de divergencia indicaron una relacin aloptrica con otras poblaciones de S. hispidus hace 150,000 aos. Adicionalmente, datos obtenidos de los anlisis del polimorfismo de fragmentos amplificados de longitud indicaron que S. h. eremicus exhibe una diversidad gentica menor que la de otras poblaciones. Conjuntamente, esos datos y la deteccin de dos reemplazos apomrficos en aminocidos no sinnimos, ms la divergencia gentica entre los polimorfismos de fragmentos amplificados de longitud, debaten que S. h. eremicus es nica al compararla con otras poblaciones de S. hispidus, y se incentiva a que se considere esta poblacin para su conservacin.
23258010|We compared otoliths, opercles, and scales for precision and reliability for estimating age of the river redhorse Moxostoma carinatum in the James River, Missouri. Opercles and otoliths showed the greatest agreement, lowest variability, and most precision in comparisons of ages obtained from counts of annuli of scales. Scales tended to underestimate age relative to other structures. Analyses of edges of opercles and otoliths sampled monthly indicated formation of a single annulus concurrently in each structure in MayJune. Opercles and otoliths, but not scales, were validated as reliable estimators of age in the river redhorse. Trajectories of growth from length-at-age data indicated a declining rate of growth with age, but continuous growth to a maximum age of 15 years. Fish of ages 3 and 4 years were 47% of the population. Comparamos otolitos, oprculos, y escamas para la precisin y la verosimilitud para estimar la edad del pez Moxostoma carinatum en el ro James en el estado de Missouri. Oprculos y otolitos demostraron el acuerdo mayor, la variabilidad ms baja, y la mejor precisin en comparaciones de las edades obtenidas de cuentas de anillos en las escamas. Las escamas tendieron a subestimar la edad, comparando con otras estructuras. Anlisis de las orillas de oprculos y de otolitos muestreados mensualmente indicaron la formacin de un slo anillo concurrente en cada estructura en mayojunio. Los oprculos y otolitos, pero no las escamas, fueron confirmados como indicadores confiables de la edad en este pez. Los trayectos del crecimiento basndose de datos de la longitud y edad indicaron una taza de crecimiento decreciente con la edad, pero crecimiento continuo a una edad mxima de 15 aos. Los peces de edades 3 y 4 aos constituyeron el 47% de la poblacin.
23258011|We investigated movement and growth of two common suckers, Catostomus clarki and Catostomus insignis, in three streams that represent the broad environmental tolerances of these species. There was limited evidence of restricted movement in C. clarki, with many individuals moving 600 m and 50-90% of recaptured individuals detected outside the original location of capture. Catostomus insignis was more sedentary than C. clarki with only 25% recaptured outside of the original location of capture. Movement patterns of the two species also varied among streams, with C. clarki moving further in Sonoita Creek than Bonita Creek or West Fork Black River, Arizona. Sonoita Creek experienced a series of floods and while movements after flooding were predominately downstream, rates of recapture were similar to those during pre-flood sampling. Rates of growth and body condition also varied among streams. Investigamos el movimiento y el crecimiento de dos especies comunes de catostmidos, Catostomus insignis y Catostomus clarki, en tres arroyos que representan las amplias tolerancias ambientales de estas especies. Hubo evidencia limitada del movimiento restringido en C. clarki, con muchos individuos trasplantndose 600 m y 50-90% de individuos recapturados detectados fuera de la localizacin original de la captura. Catostomus insignis fue ms sedentario que C. clarki, con slo 25% de los recapturados encontrados fuera del rea de captura original. Los patrones de movimiento tambin variaron segn el arroyo, con C. clarki trasplantndose ms lejos en el riachuelo Sonoita que en el riachuelo Bonita o en el ro West Fork Black, Arizona. El riachuelo Sonoita experiment una serie de inundaciones y mientras que los movimientos despus de las inundaciones fueron predominantemente hacia ro abajo, las tasas de recaptura fueron similares a los muestreos previos a las inundaciones. La tasa de crecimiento y condicin del cuerpo tambin variaron entre arroyos.
23258012|We surveyed 14 communities of mesopredators in the Ozark Highlands of southern Missouri to examine the effect of landscape and surveying efforts on probability of detection of raccoons (Procyon lotor) and Virginia opossums (Didelphis virginiana). Virginia opossums had a higher probability of detection than raccoons. Mean size of forested patches had a negative effect on probability of detection, suggesting that the hypothesis that abundance of mesopredators increases in small patches of forest is an artifact of sampling. We suggest that it is important for researchers to include probability of detection when analyzing data from surveys of mesopredators. Muestreamos 14 comunidades de depredadores medianos en las Ozark Highlands del sur de Missouri para examinar el efecto de factores de paisaje y esfuerzos de muestreo en la probabilidad de deteccin de mapaches (Procyon lotor) y tlacuaches (Didelphis virginiana). Los tlacuaches tuvieron una probabilidad de deteccin mayor que los mapaches. El tamao medio de parches de bosque tuvo un efecto negativo en la probabilidad de deteccin, sugiriendo que la hiptesis de que la abundancia de los depredadores medianos suba en parches pequeos del bosque es artefacto de muestreo. Sugerimos que es importante que los investigadores incluyan la probabilidad de deteccin cuando analicen datos de muestreos de depredadores medianos.
23258013|During >1 decade, I surveyed arthropods on a desert sand-dune system in the Coachella Valley, Riverside County, California. The most abundant of these arthropods were Coachella Valley giant sand-treader crickets Macrobaenetes valgum (Orthoptera: Rhapidophoridae), beetles Asbolus laevis and Edrotes ventricosus (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae), and California harvester ants Pogonomyrmex californicus (Hymenoptera: Formicidae). While dynamics of M. valgum closely tracked precipitation, the other three species had complex fluctuations that often lacked correlations to annual rainfall. Beyond identifying departures from expected rainfall-driven relationships, an important outcome was an understanding of how long-term datasets are essential for understanding dynamics of populations. Durante >1 dcada, he monitoreado artrpodos en un sistema desrtico de dunas de arena en el Valle de Coachella, condado de Riverside, California. Los artrpodos ms abundantes fueron el grillo de arena gigante, Macrobaenetes valgum (Ortptera: Rhapidophoridae), los escarabajos Asbolus laevis y Edrotes ventricosus (Coleptera: Tenebrionidae) y la hormiga granvora roja Pogonomyrmex californicus (Hymenptera: Formicidae). Mientras que la dinmica de M. valgum coincidi bien con la precipitacin, las otras tres especies mostraron fluctuaciones complejas que con frecuencia carecan de correlaciones con las lluvias anuales. Ms all de la identificacin de desvos de las relaciones esperadas de la dinmica y la precipitacin, un resultado importante fue la comprensin de la manera en que los conjuntos de datos a largo plazo son esenciales para entender la dinmica de poblaciones.
23258014|We compared two populations of the bluehead sucker (Catostomus discobolus) during 20072009 in the Weber River, Davis, Summit, and Weber countries, Utah. We estimated 225 and 546 individuals in these populations. Based on recaptured, PIT-tagged fish, annual survival of adults (202575 mm total length) was high (77%); however, our top model indicated mortality increased with size (i.e., senescence). We documented movements 15 km downstream and 5 km upstream and 88% of detections from a stationary antenna occurred at night. Despite high rates of survival of adults, recruitment appeared minimal in one of the populations because it was composed primarily of mature adults. Recruitment potentially was limited by interactions with a high density of brown trout (Salmo trutta) and combined effects of an altered hydrograph (magnitude, duration, and timing) and thermal regime. If conservation of these populations is a priority, recruitment must be increased immediately in one of the populations to avoid extinction. Se compararon dos poblaciones del matalote cabeza azul (Catostomus discobolus) durante 2007-2009 en el ro Weber, en los condados de Davis, Summit, y Weber, Utah. Se estimaron 225 y 546 individuos en estas poblaciones. Basndose en los peces recapturados con transmisores PIT, la supervivencia anual de adultos (202575 mm longitud total) fue alta (77%); sin embargo, nuestro mejor modelo indic que la mortandad aument con el tamao (por ejemplo, la senectud). Documentamos desplazamientos 15 km ro abajo y 5 km ro arriba y 88% de los registros de una antena fija ocurrieron en la noche. A pesar de las altas tasas de supervivencia de adultos, el reclutamiento fue mnimo en una de las poblaciones, ya que se compuso principalmente de adultos maduros. El reclutamiento fue limitado potencialmente por la interaccin con una densidad alta de trucha marrn, (Salmo trutta) y los efectos combinados de un hidrgrafo alterado (magnitud, duracin, y estacionalidad) y el rgimen trmico. Si la conservacin de estas poblaciones es una prioridad, el xito del reclutamiento se debe aumentar inmediatamente en una de las poblaciones para evitar extincin.
23258015|We surveyed Tinker Air Force Base, Oklahoma County, Oklahoma, an urban complex largely dominated by industrial and housing facilities but with habitats for herpetofauna and mammals. Using a variety of sampling techniques, we captured or observed >2,000 organisms on 16 study areas. We tallied 11 species of amphibians (all anurans), 26 species of reptiles, and 24 species of mammals, including several species of conservation concern. Species richness and diversity were predictably higher on green-space areas and were lower on areas surrounding airfield runways. Muestreamos a Tinker Air Force Base, condado de Oklahoma, Oklahoma, un complejo urbano mayormente dominado por las instalaciones industriales y de viviendas, pero con hbitats para herpetofauna y mamferos. Usando una variedad de tcnicas de muestreo, capturamos u observamos >2,000 organismos en 16 reas de estudio. Registramos 11 especies de anfibios (todos anuros), 26 especies de reptiles, y 24 especies de mamferos, incluyendo varias especies de inters para la conservacin. La riqueza de especies y diversidad fueron previsiblemente mayores en las reas de espacio verde y fueron menores en las reas circundantes de las pistas areas.
23258016|The primary objective was to document the diversity of fishes in Reserva de la Biosfera Barranca de Metztitln, Hidalgo, Mexico. Samples were collected from 35 localities using electrofishing, nets, and angling, and from local fishermen. A total of 7,290 specimens was collected, representing 16 species (including 4 introduced and 4 translocated). This study adds seven species to the regional fish fauna, five of which are exotic. El objetivo primario fue caracterizar la diversidad de peces en la Reserva de la Biosfera Barranca de Metztitln, Hidalgo, Mxico. Se muestrearon peces en 35 localidades, capturados con pesca elctrica, redes, pesca con anzuelo, y por pescadores locales. Se captur un total de 7,290 especmenes, representando 16 especies (incluyendo 4 especies introducidas y 4 translocadas). Este trabajo aade siete nuevas especies a la ictiofauna regional, cinco de las cuales son exticas.
23258017|We studied demography of a population of side-blotched lizards, Uta stansburiana, in the sand dunes of Reserva de Biosfera de Mapim, Durango, Mexico, during 19891994. Reproduction in females occurred during JanuaryJuly, which coincided with late dry and early wet seasons. Reproductive activity was highest in the middle of the dry season (FebruaryMarch). At an average age of 10 months, 32% of females had reached sexual maturity. A notable feature of summer and autumn was the greater number of hatchlings and juveniles, coinciding with the wet season. Overall sex ratio did not differ from 1:1. Density of adults was 1 59/ha. This population had early maturity, a relatively short life expectancy, and many offspring. Estudiamos la demografa de una poblacin de la lagartija de manchas laterales, Uta stansburiana, en las dunas de arena de la Reserva de Biosfera de Mapim, Durango, Mxico, durante 19891994. La reproduccin en las hembras ocurri durante enerojulio, lo cual coincidi con el fin de la estacin seca y principio de la estacin hmeda. La actividad reproductora fue ms alta a la mitad de la estacin seca (febreromarzo). A una edad promedio de 10 meses, el 32% de las hembras haban alcanzado la madurez sexual. Una caracterstica notable en el verano y el otoo fue el mayor nmero de cras y jvenes, coincidiendo con la estacin hmeda. La proporcin global de sexos no fue diferente de 1:1. La densidad de adultos fue de 159/ha. Esta poblacin tena una madurez temprana, una esperanza de vida relativamente corta, y muchas cras.
23258018|Studies of the yellow mud turtle Kinosternon flavescens in the late 1970s and 1980s documented eight clusters of localities in nine counties in Illinois, five in four counties in Iowa, and five in two counties in Missouri. Sampling that began in 1995 verified continued existence of the species at only two localities in Illinois, two in Iowa, and one in Missouri. Severe declines have occurred in the largest population in each of these states. In all three states, lowered water levels, usually due to withdrawal of water from aquifers, have contributed at least partly to some of the declines. Water has disappeared from some ponds for multiple years. Other contributors are encroachment of woody plants on nesting habitats or between nesting areas and aquatic feeding areas, which often are associated with heavy predation on turtles and nests by mesopredators. Estudios hechos a fines de las dcadas de 1970 y 1980 han documentado ocho poblaciones de la tortuga Kinosternon flavescens en nueve condados de Illinois, cinco en cuatro condados de Iowa, y cinco en dos condados de Missouri. Muestreos que empezaron en 1995 han demostrado que la especie sigue en slo dos localidades de Illinois, dos en Iowa, y una en Missouri. Una severa disminucin ha ocurrido en las poblaciones ms grandes en cada uno de los tres estados. En los tres estados, la severa disminucin de los niveles del agua, debido a la extraccin de agua de los acuferos, ha contribuido parcialmente a las disminuciones. El agua ha desaparecido de algunos estanques por varios aos. Otros factores son la invasin de plantas leosas al hbitat de anidacin, o entre las reas de anidacin y las reas acuticas de alimentacin, reas que frecuentemente estn asociadas con la depredacin fuerte, tanto de las tortugas como de los nidos, por depredadores de tamao mediano.
23258019|We predicted current and potential distribution of cougars (Puma concolor) in Texas and bordering states in Mexico (Chihuahua, Coahuila, Nuevo Len, and Tamaulipas) by creating a model of suitable habitats. We used MaxEnt to create our model using radiotelemetric data from southern and western Texas, as well as a suite of environmental variables. Our values for area under the receiver-operator curve (>0.85 for both training and test data) suggested that our model was a good predictor of habitat and distribution. Our map can aid in identifying areas where further research is needed to detect presence, status of populations, connectivity of corridors, and other demographic characteristics that are necessary for conservation and management of cougars. Predecimos la distribucin actual y potencial de pumas (Puma concolor) en Texas y sus estados fronterizos en Mxico (Chihuahua, Coahuila, Nuevo Len, y Tamaulipas) creando un modelo de adecuacin de hbitat. Usamos MaxEnt para crear nuestro modelo utilizando datos radiotelemtricos del sur y oeste de Texas, al igual que un juego de variables ambientales. Nuestros valores para el rea bajo la curva receptor-operador (>0.85 para datos tanto de entrenamiento y de prueba) sugieren que nuestro modelo es bueno para predecir hbitat y distribucin. Nuestro mapa puede ayudar a identificar reas donde ms investigaciones son necesarias para detectar presencia, estado poblacional, conectividad de corredores, y otras caractersticas demogrficas que son necesarias para la conservacin y el manejo de pumas.
23258020|We used 24 captive northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) to compare relative preference of seeds of nonnative guineagrass (Urochloa maxima) to three native foods (switchgrass Panicum virgatum, Texas millet Urochloa texana, and plains bristlegrass Setaria leucopila). By mass, switchgrass was consumed more than other species; plains bristlegrass was least preferred. Selections of guineagrass and Texas millet were similar and intermediate between the other species. By volume, switchgrass and guineagrass were consumed equally. Switchgrass and guineagrass were higher in protein (16 and 18%, respectively) than the other species (13%). Texas millet had higher gross energy content and lower acid-detergent-fiber values compared to the other species. Plains bristlegrass had the lowest protein (13%) and lowest gross energy (3.72 kcal/g). Seeds of guineagrass were consumed and are similar to switchgrass in protein content. Usamos 24 codornices (Colinus virginianus) en cautiverio para determinar la preferencia relativa por la semilla de pasto de guinea (Urochloa maxima) no nativo comparada con tres alimentos nativos (pasto varilla Panicum virgatum, pasto alambre Urochloa texana y zacate tempranero Setaria leucopila). La semilla del pasto varilla por volumen fue la ms preferida, y la del zacate tempranero fue la menos preferida. El consumo de U. maxima y U. texana fue similar e intermedio entre las otras especies. Las de pasto varilla y las de pasto de guinea fueron ms altas en protena (16 y 18%, respectivamente) comparadas con las otras especies (13%). La semilla del pasto alambre fue ms alta en energa bruta y tuvo el menor valor de fibra cida detergente comparada con las otras especies. La semilla del zacate tempranero fue la ms baja en protena (13%) y en energa bruta (3.72 kcal/g). Las semillas del pasto de guinea fueron consumidas y son similares a las del pasto varilla en el contenido de protena.
23258021|The chytrid fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis was detected in five populations of Pseudacris hypochondriaca curta, an endemic treefrog fully dependent on desert oases in Baja California Sur, Mexico. Prevalence of the fungus varied among oases with values of 8, 31, 42, 60, and 100% for populations sampled. Oases with higher prevalence were inhabited by exotic species such as American bullfrogs (Lithobates catesbeianus) and crayfish (Procambarus clarkii). These observations are the first of B. dendrobatidis in amphibians from lowland (<100 m) arid environments in Mexico. El hongo qutrido Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis fue detectado en cinco poblaciones de Pseudacris hypochondriaca curta, una rana endmica y completamente dependiente de los oasis del desierto en Baja California Sur, Mxico. La prevalencia del hongo fue distinta entre todos los oasis con valores de 8, 31, 42, 60, y 100% de la poblacin muestreada. Los oasis con valores mayores de prevalencia estuvieron habitados por especies exticas tales como la rana toro (Lithobates catesbeianus) y el langostino (Procambarus clarkii). Este es el primer reporte de B. dendrobatidis en anfibios de tierras bajas (<100 m) en ambientes ridos en Mxico.
23258022|We examined patterns of response of southern riparian forest and southern-willow scrub, both dominated by arroyo willows (Salix lasiolepis), sampled in 1999 prior to fire and in 2008 following an intense wildfire in San Diego County, California. Arroyo willows had vigorous basal and epicormic resprouting in the riparian forest and minimal mortality from fire. While no sapling of S. lasiolepis was noted in 1999, we observed four in 2008. The most striking change in understory of southern-willow scrub was the increase in nonnative plants, particularly graminoids. No willow-scrub plot experienced postburn mechanical disturbance. The herbaceous increase in southern-willow scrub was likely a result of timing of precipitation combined with fire and drought that opened the overstory of trees and shrubs. Interspecific competition for moisture between nonnative herbs and seedlings of S. lasiolepis might negatively impact recruitment of this species and impact its function in these ecosystems. Examinamos los patrones de recuperacin del bosque ripario sureo y del matorral sauzal sureo, los dos dominados por sauces de arroyo (Salix lasiolepis), muestreados en 1999 antes de un incendio y otra vez en 2008 despus de un intenso incendio en el condado de San Diego, California. Los sauces de arroyo tuvieron nuevos y vigorosos brotes basales y epicrmicos en el bosque ripario, con mortalidad mnima por el fuego. Aunque ninguna plntula de S. lasiolepis fue observada en 1999, observamos cuatro en 2008. El cambio ms notable en el sotobosque de matorral sauzal sureo fue el aumento de plantas no nativas, particularmente gramneas. Ningn sitio de matorral sauzal experiment perturbacin mecnica post-incendio. El aumento herbceo en el matorral sauzal sureo fue probablemente un resultado de la precipitacin conjunta con fuego y sequa que abri las copas de los rboles y arbustos. La competencia interespecfica por agua entre hierbas no nativas y plntulas de S. lasiolepis quizs afecta negativamente el reclutamiento de esta especie e impacta su funcin en estos ecosistemas.
23258023|We induced three adoptions during the period of biparental care by placing orphaned chicks of magnificent frigatebirds (Fregata magnificens) into nests of foster parents whose chick had died. Indirect parent-offspring recognition seemed to occur during the period of biparental care. A chick was adopted in one of our three trials; thus, adoption of orphaned chicks potentially could be used as a conservation strategy. Indujimos tres adopciones durante el perido de cuidado biparental colocando pollos hurfanos del rabihorcado (Fregata magnificens) en nidos de parejas cuyos pollos haban muerto. Al parecer, existi reconocimiento indirecto de padre-hijo durante el periodo de cuidado biparental. Un pollo fue adoptado en uno de los tres intentos; por lo tanto, la adopcin de pollos hurfanos potencialmente pudiera ser usada como una estrategia de conservacin.
23258024|We determined total growth of an individual longnose gar, Lepisosteus osseus, from Lake Texoma, Oklahoma-Texas, from 18 May 2010 when the egg was spawned and fertilized in the reservoir, until 31 October (166 days later), when we recovered it as a juvenile from a small pond where it had been housed throughout the growing season. Total length was 261 mm, equivalent to a mean growth of 1.57 mm/day. This is the first determination of growth for this species during its first year of life, beginning with a known date of formation of the zygote in the wild. Determinamos el crecimiento total de un individuo de gaspar picudo (Lepisosteus osseus) del lago Texoma, Oklahoma-Texas, desde el 18 de mayo del 2010, cuando el huevo fue puesto y fertilizado en el embalse, hasta el 31 de octubre (166 das despus), cuando lo recuperamos como juvenil en un estanque pequeo donde se lo mantuvo durante el periodo de crecimiento. La longitud total fue de 261 mm, equivalente a una tasa media de crecimiento de 1.57 mm por da. sta es la primera determinacin del crecimiento de sta especie en el primer ao de vida, que comenz con una fecha conocida de la formacin del zigoto en el campo.
23258025|Peniocereus greggii variety greggii is a protected species that is collected illegally in Parque Estatal Can de Fernandez. It is associated with fertility islands formed by mesquites Prosopis glandulosa and P. laevigata. It has a root that is used as food, it can be used to treat kidney problems, and it is a cardiac stimulant. Peniocereus greggii variedad greggii es una especie protegida y saqueada ilegalmente del Parque Estatal Can de Fernndez. Se asocia con islas de fertilidad formadas por mezquites Prosopis glandulosa y P. laevigata. Posee una raz que se utiliza como alimento, puede ser utilizado para tratar problemas renales, y es un estimulante cardiaco.
23258026|Arizona is the only state in the lower 48 United States without native crayfish. We report discovery of the red swamp crawfish (Procambarus clarkii) in the San Pedro River, Cochise County, Arizona, and recommend further monitoring of this newly discovered population. Arizona es el nico estado de los 48 estados inferiores de los Estados Unidos sin cangrejos del ro nativos. Informamos del descubrimiento del langostino rojo (Procambarus clarkii) en el ro San Pedro, condado de Cochise, Arizona, y recomendamos futuro seguimiento de esta poblacin recin descubierta.
23258027|During 2007-2010, we captured the western red bat (Lasiurus blossevillii) and Arizona myotis (Myotis occultus) in riparian-restoration areas along the lower Colorado River. Previously, the western red bat had not been reported along the lower Colorado River and the Arizona myotis was presumed to be extirpated from that area. Durante los aos 2007-2010, capturamos el murcilago rojo occidental (Lasiurus blossevillii) y el murcilago de Arizona (Myotis occultus) en sitios de restauracin riparia ubicados a lo largo del ro Colorado. El murcilago rojo occidental no ha sido registrado en el tramo inferior del ro Colorado y el murcilago de Arizona se presuma ausente del rea.
23258028|We document distribution of breeding least terns (Sternula antillarum) in northern Sonora, Mexico, 20062008. We report breeding activity at six sites with active colonies, including three previously undocumented colonies. Documentamos la distribucin del charrn mnimo (Sternula antillarum) reproducindose en el norte del estado de Sonora, Mxico, 20062008. Reportamos actividad reproductiva en seis sitios con colonias activas, incluyendo tres colonias no documentadas anteriormente.
23258029|Two female ctenophthalmid fleas, Ctenophthalmus pseudagyrtes, were collected in June 2003 from an eastern mole Scalopus aquaticus from Marion County, Texas. This flea originally was described from S. aquaticus in Michigan; C. pseudagyrtes has been reported from various mammalian hosts collected primarily east of the Mississippi River. This is the first report from Texas. In addition, we provide the second record of the mite Haemogamasus harperi in Texas from the same host. Dos pulgas hembras ctenophthlmidas, Ctenophthalmus pseudagyrtes, fueron recolectadas en junio de 2003 de un topo oriental, Scalopus aquaticus, del condado de Marion, Texas. Esta pulga fue originalmente descrita de S. aquaticus en el estado de Michigan; C. pseudagyrtes se ha registrado de varios huspedes mamferos recogidos principalmente del este del ro Mississippi. Este es el primer registro de Texas. Adems, proveemos el segundo registro del caro Haemogamasus harperi en Texas del mismo husped.
23258030|We collected three juvenile Alabama shad (Alosa alabamae) from the White River of Arkansas in August 2006. This is the first record of the species from the White River drainage. Morphology and size compared well with A. alabamae previously reported from other drainages in the state. Se recogieron tres juveniles del pez Alosa alabamae del ro Blanco de Arkansas en agosto de 2006. Este es el primer registro de la especie de la cuenca del ro Blanco. La morfologa y el tamao fueron parecidos a A. alabamae anteriormente registrada de otras cuencas en el estado.
23258031|Principal-coordinate analysis suggests that Vachellia  cedilloi is of hybrid origin. Probable parents are V. cornigera and V. globulifera. This putative hybrid shows a relationship to V. cornigera with a much smaller, but similar, short spike-like inflorescence with a cone-shaped receptacle and leaves with relatively few pairs of pinnae. In contrast, the columnar to narrow volcano-shaped rachis glands, along with narrow stipular spines, indicate a relationship to V. globulifera. Anlisis de coordinadas principales sugiere que Vachellia  cedilloi es de origen hbrido. Los progenitores probables son V. cornigera y V. globulifera. Este hibrido putativo demuestra una relacin a V. cornigera debido a que posee una inflorescencia de corta espiga, ms pequea pero parecida a la de V. cornigera, y un receptculo en forma de cono y hojas con relativamente pocos pares de pinas. En contraste, las glndulas del raquis en forma de columna estrecha o como un volcn, en compaa de espinas estipulares estrechas, indican relacin a V. globulifera.
23258032|We found five species of terrestrial land snails in dried ephemeral pools at Ottine Swamp, Palmetto State Park, Gonzales County, Texas. We recorded four species previously known (Anguispira stronglyodes, Mesomphix friabilis, Olygyra orbiculata, and Rabdotus dealbatus) and added a new occurrence (Mesodon thyroidus) to the list of species in the park. Se encontraron cinco especies de caracoles terrestres en los fondos secos de unos charcos efmeros en Ottine Swamp, Palmetto State Park, en el condado de Gonzales, Texas. Registramos cuatro especies conocidas anteriormente (Anguispira stronglyodes, Mesomphix friabilis, Olygyra orbiculata y Rabdotus dealbatus) y aadimos una nueva especie (Mesodon thyroidus) a la lista de especies en el parque.
23362578|We studied habitat relationships of elk (Cervus elaphus) at scales of landscape, home range, and site on and adjacent to Chaco Culture National Historical Park, San Juan and McKinley counties, New Mexico. Across scales, use of habitats was driven by needs for cover. Pinyonjuniper and rocky habitats were used most often. Accrual of body fat was related most strongly to lactation and precipitation but also was influenced by several habitats, most strongly by semi-desert shrub-steppe. Habitats positively related to accrual of body fat were used less than available at scales of landscape and home range. Conversely, habitats preferentially included and used in home ranges were related negatively to accrual of body fat, further highlighting the importance of cover. At the level of site, feeding sites had greater cover by shrubs (23% versus 12%) and grassforbs (>25% versus <11%) than did bedding sites, whereas bedding sites had higher overstory cover (46% versus 4%). Bedding sites most frequently were under pinyon or juniper trees or rocky overhangs and caves. Activity during midday was avoided when mean high temperatures exceeded thermal tolerance. Aspect and distance to roads, streams, or water did not affect distribution, but presence of elk was associated positively with higher elevations in some years. Estudiamos las relaciones del hbitat del alce (Cervus elaphus) a las escalas de paisaje, mbito hogareo y sitio en el Chaco Culture National Historical Park y sus cercanas en los condados de San Juan y McKinley en Nuevo Mxico. A travs de las escalas, el uso de hbitats fue dirigido por necesidades de cobertura. reas de pinjunpero y hbitat rocoso fueron los usados ms frecuentemente. La acumulacin de grasa corporal se relacion ms fuerte con la lactancia y precipitacin, pero tambin fue influenciada por varios hbitats, ms fuerte por la estepa arbustiva semi-desrtica. Los hbitats que se relacionaron positivamente con la acumulacin de grasa corporal fueron usados menos que su disponibilidad a la escala de paisaje y mbito hogareo. A la inversa, los hbitats preferencialmente incluidos y usados en los mbitos hogareos fueron relacionados negativamente a la acumulacin de grasa corporal, destacando an ms la importancia de la cobertura. A nivel de sitio, los sitios de alimentacin tuvieron mayor cobertura por arbustos (23% versus <12%) y pastos-matorrales (>25% versus <11%) que los sitios para dormir, mientras que los sitios para dormir tuvieron mayor cobertura de dosel (46% versus 4%). Los sitios para dormir se encontraban ms frecuentemente bajo rboles de pin o junpero o en salientes rocosas y cuevas. La actividad durante el medioda fue evitada cuando el promedio de la temperatura mxima exceda la tolerancia termal. El aspecto y la distancia a caminos, arroyos, o agua no afectaron la distribucin, pero la presencia del alce estuvo asociada positivamente con elevaciones ms altas en algunos aos.
23362579|We documented characteristics of habitats and related these to foraging needs of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) in the San Andres Mountains, Doa Ana, Sierra, and Socorro counties, New Mexico. Cover by forbs was related positively to rainfall during the primary growing season in mixed-lowland scrub, sand sagebrush (Artemisia filifolia), alkali sacaton (Sporobolus airoides), and creosotebush (Larrea tridentata) habitats. Cover by palatable and preferred forages was low (8.6%) in 2004, 2005, and 2007, years of average rainfall, and increased slightly in 2006 (9.3%) during above-average rainfall. During years of average rainfall, cover by forbs was related negatively to percentage cover by shrubs, to density of honey mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa), sand sagebrush, and grama grass (Bouteloua), and to canopy and density of trees in pinyonjuniper (PinusJuniperus) woodlands. Important species of browse were in all habitats, but only grama grass (n = 9), pinyonjuniper (n = 12), and oakmountain mahogany (QuercusCercocarpus montanus) habitats (n = 11) had more than two species. Cover by important species of browse in pinyonjuniper woodlands was related inversely to cover of the canopy. Documentamos las caractersticas del hbitat y sus relaciones a las necesidades del forrajeo del venado bura (Odocoileus hemionus) en las montaas San Andrs en los condados de Doa Ana, Sierra y Socorro en Nuevo Mxico. La cobertura por herbceas se relacion positivamente con la lluvia durante la temporada de crecimiento principal en los hbitats de matorral de tierra baja, artemisa de arena (Artemisia filifolia), zacatn alcalino (Sporobolus airoides) y gobernadora (Larrea tridentata). La cobertura por forrajes comestibles y preferidos fue baja ( 8.6%) en 2004, 2005 y 2007, aos con lluvia normal, y aument un poco en 2006 ( 9.3%), un ao con ms lluvia. Durante aos de lluvia normal, la cobertura de herbceas estuvo relacionada negativamente con el porcentaje de cobertura de arbustos, con la densidad del mezquite de miel (Prosopis glandulosa), artemisa de arena y el zacate (Bouteloua), y con dosel y densidad de rboles de bosques de pionerojunpero (PinusJuniperus). Las especies importantes para ramonear se encontraron en todos los hbitats, pero slo en los hbitats de zacate (n = 9), pionerojunpero (n = 12), y encino y caoba de montaa (QuercusCercocarpus montanus) (n = 11) hubo ms de dos especies. La cobertura por especies importantes para ramonear en bosques de pionerojunpero estuvo inversamente relacionada a la cobertura del dosel.
23362580|We estimated the effect of thinning ponderosa pines (Pinus ponderosa) on populations of Abert's squirrels (Sciurus aberti). In 2008 and 2009, thinned and unthinned stands of ponderosa pines were sampled for evidence of over-winter feeding activity. Density of Abert's squirrels decreased from 2008 to 2009. In 2008, evidence of feeding was on 25 of 27 stands with no difference in density of Abert's squirrels between thinned and unthinned stands. Evidence of feeding was much lower in 2009, with 13 of 32 stands showing no evidence of feeding. Evaluamos los efectos del adelgazamiento de pinos ponderosa (Pinus ponderosa) en las poblaciones de ardillas de Abert (Sciurus aberti). En 2008 y 2009, las parcelas de pinos ponderosa raleadas y no raleadas fueron muestreadas para pruebas de actividad invernal de alimentacin. La densidad de ardillas de Abert se redujo de 2008 a 2009. En 2008, la evidencia de la alimentacin fue en 25 de 27 parcelas sin ninguna diferencia en la densidad de ardillas de Abert entre parcelas raleadas y no raleadas. La evidencia de la alimentacin fue mucho ms baja en 2009, con 13 de las 32 parcelas sin mostrar signos de alimentacin.
23362581|We examined diversity, density, and movements of small mammals in a subalpine coniferous forest in Colorado by comparing three sites in a 40-m-wide powerline right-of-way to three control sites in undisturbed forest. We captured 181 individuals of 10 species at powerline sites and 128 individuals of nine species at control sites. Density of southern red-backed voles (Myodes gapperi) was higher at control sites, whereas least chipmunks (Tamias minimus) had a greater density at powerline sites. At powerline sites, southern red-backed voles occupied forested habitats >30 m away from the right-of-way, whereas least chipmunks occupied habitats within the right-of-way. Following translocation across the right-of-way, North American deermice (Peromyscus maniculatus) readily crossed the right-of-way, while the right-of-way formed a barrier to southern red-backed voles. During their natural movements, southern red-backed voles exhibited significant directional movements parallel to the right-of-way, whereas North American deermice in adjacent forest tended to move toward the right-of-way. Retention of downed woody debris in powerline right-of-ways may reduce impacts on forest-adapted species such as southern red-backed voles. Examinamos la diversidad, densidad y desplazamientos de mamferos pequeos en un bosque de conferas subalpinos en el estado de Colorado comparando tres sitios en una franja de prioridad de 40 m de ancho de un cable de alta tensin, con tres sitios de control en un bosque imperturbado. Capturamos 181 individuos de 10 especies en los sitios de la franja de prioridad y 128 individuos de 9 especies en los sitios de control. La densidad del ratn de campo (Myodes gapperi) fue mayor en los sitios de control, mientras que las ardillas rayadas (Tamias minimus) tuvieron densidades mayores en los sitios de la franja de prioridad. En los sitios de la franja de prioridad, ratones de campo ocuparon hbitats boscosos >30 m de la franja de prioridad, mientras que las ardillas rayadas ocuparon hbitats dentro de la franja de prioridad. Despus de su translocacin al otro lado de la franja de prioridad, ratones ciervos (Peromyscus maniculatus) cruzaron la franja fcilmente, mientras que la franja form una barrera para los ratones de campo. Durante sus desplazamientos naturales, los ratones de campo demostraron traslados direccionales significativos en paralelo a la franja, mientras que los ratones ciervos en el bosque adyacente se dirigieron hacia la franja. La retencin de escombros leosos en la franja de prioridad de cables de alta tensin puede reducir los impactos en especies adaptadas al bosque, como los ratones de campo.
23362582|Swift foxes (Vulpes velox) once occupied ca. 79 counties in Texas, but surveys in 19971998 indicated the range of the species was reduced to two counties. We used scat-transects and live-trapping during 20052007 to assess current distribution of the species in Texas. Our results indicated that distribution of the swift fox in Texas remains significantly reduced from the historical distribution and that population densities are low where the species currently exists. El zorro del desierto (Vulpes velox) antes ocupaba ca. 79 condados de Texas, pero muestreos en 19971998 indicaron que la distribucin de la especie se redujo a dos condados. Se utilizaron excrementos a travs de transectos y captura de animales vivos durante 20052007 para evaluar la distribucin actual de la especie en Texas. Nuestros resultados indicaron que la distribucin de el zorro del desierto en Texas sigue siendo significativamente reducida de la distribucin histrica, y que las densidades poblacionales son bajas donde la especie existe en la actualidad.
23362583|We studied fossils of late Pleistocene vertebrates that were excavated in 1940 from a small rockshelter in Cimarron County, Oklahoma. The assemblage consists of a Canada goose (Branta canadensis) and 14 mammals. Most of the mammals are large or medium-sized indicating a bias in the method of collecting. The assemblage includes Branta canadensis, Mammuthus cf. M. columbi, Cynomys, Neotoma, Lepus, Sylvilagus, Vulpes velox, Canis latrans, Canis lupus, cf. Lynx, Equus cf. conversidens, Equus cf. niobrarensis, Camelops hesternus, Antilocapridae, and Bison. Noteworthy among these is one of the few available late Pleistocene records of the swift fox, Vulpes velox. A piece of enamel from the mammoth at the locality yielded a radiocarbon age of 23,980  130 years before present. Estudiamos los fsiles de vertebrados del Pleistoceno tardo que fueron excavados en 1940 de un refugio pequeo de piedra en el condado de Cimarrn en Oklahoma. El ensamblaje se compone de un ganso de Canad (Branta canadensis) y 14 mamferos. La mayora de los mamferos son grandes o medianos, que indica un sesgo en el mtodo de recoleccin. El ensamblaje incluye Branta canadensis, Mammuthus cf. M. columbi, Cynomys, Neotoma, Lepus, Sylvilagus, Vulpes velox, Canis latrans, Canis lupus, cf. Lynx, Equus cf. conversidens, Equus cf. niobrarensis, Camelops hesternus, Antilocapridae, y Bison. Significativo entre estos es uno de los pocos registros disponibles del Pleistoceno tardo de la zorrita nortea Vulpes velox. Un pedazo de esmalte del mamut de la localidad dio una edad radiocarbono de 23,980  130 aos antes del presente.
23362584|We collected Salt Creek pupfish (Cyprinodon salinus salinus) from Salt Creek, Death Valley, California, in November 2009 and May 2010. The purpose of our study was to determine whether otoliths displayed interpretable marks that might be used for estimating age and growth. Otoliths exhibited alternating bands of opaque and translucent material. Kendall rank correlation between number of bands on otoliths and length of fish were high for two readers ( = 0.65 and 0.79) and exact agreement between readers was 51%. Otoliths exhibited 05 bands, which provided evidence that longevity of Salt Creek pupfish likely is >1 year. Total length of fish collected in spring and autumn differed for fish with one and three bands on otoliths. Recogimos ciprinodntidos de Salt Creek (Cyprinodon salinus salinus) en Salt Creek, Death Valley, California, en noviembre de 2009 y mayo de 2010. El propsito de nuestro estudio fue de determinar si otolitos exhibieron seales interpretables para estimar la edad y crecimiento. Los otolitos exhibieron franjas de materia alternativamente opaca o traslcida. La correlacin de rangos de Kendall entre la cantidad de franjas en los otolitos y el largo de los peces fue alta para dos leedores ( = 0.65 y 0.79) y el porcentaje de acuerdo exacto entre los dos leedores fue 51%. Los otolitos exhibieron 05 franjas, sugiriendo que la longevidad de los ciprinodntidos de Salt Creek probablemente sea >1 ao. El largo total de los peces recogidos en la primavera y en el otoo se diferenciaron entre peces con una y tres franjas en los otolitos.
23362585|A population of the araneophagic pirate spider Mimetus hesperus (Araneae, Mimetidae) in Bakersfield, Kern County, California, was studied AprilDecember 2010 with weekly nondestructive censuses. Information on predation, seasonality, and interactions with prey spiders is presented. This is the first information concerning ecology and behavior of M. hesperus. Una poblacin de la araa Mimetus hesperus (Araneae, Mimetidae) en Bakersfield, condado de Kern, California, que come de otras araas, fue estudiada desde abril a diciembre del 2010 en censos semanales no destructivos. Informacin sobre la depredacin, estacionalidad y las interacciones con las araas presas se presenta. Esta es la primera informacin sobre la ecologa y comportamiento de M. hesperus.
23362586|We performed experimental trials on hatchery-reared juvenile bonytails (Gila elegans) using the acclimated-chronic-exposure method. Bonytails were exposed to 830C for 112 days to determine effects on growth, condition factor, composition of body, and survival. Survival was 98% for all treatments. The predicted temperature was 25.9C for maximum gain in weight and 14.2C for zero gain. Temperatures <14C depressed growth, 1420C provided incremental growth, and 2226C allowed accelerated growth. We hypothesize that temperatures during propagation and seasonal temperatures of rivers that are 2226C, or both, would maximize growth of juveniles and might promote higher survival because bonytails would be less vulnerable to predation, and have greater energy reserves and increased metabolic efficiency. Subadultos de la carpa elegante (Gila elegans) criados en cautiverio fueron sometidos a pruebas experimentales utilizando el mtodo de aclimatacin y exposicin crnica. Utilizamos exposiciones entre 8 y 30C con una duracin de 112 das para determinar los efectos en el crecimiento, condicin, composicin corporal, y sobrevivencia. La sobrevivencia fue 98% en todos los tratamientos. Las temperaturas predichas para obtener crecimiento de peso mximo y de cero fueron de 25.9C y 14.2C, respectivamente. Temperaturas <14C impidieron el crecimiento, las entre 14 y 20C incrementaron el crecimiento gradual, mientras que las entre 2226C aceleraron el crecimiento. Proponemos la hiptesis de que las temperaturas durante la propagacin y las temperaturas estacionales de los ros entre 2226C, o ambas, pueden maximizar el crecimiento de los juveniles y pueden promover ms alta sobrevivencia porque las carpas elegantes sern menos vulnerables a ala depredacin, y tendrn ms reservas energticas e incrementarn su eficiencia metablica.
23362587|We described seasonal microhabitats of the lizards Uta stansburiana, Phrynosoma modestum, and Aspidoscelis tigris in the sand dunes of Mdanos de Samalayuca, Chihuahua, Mexico. Uta stansburiana and A. tigris used many resources in common and frequently were observed under honey mesquites Prosopis glandulosa, the most common and largest shrub on our study site. In contrast, P. modestum was more common in bare areas. Uta stansburiana and A. tigris showed moderate to high overlap in vegetative cover and compaction of substrate. With respect to Uta stansburiana and A. tigris, P. modestum showed low-to-moderate overlap in microhabitats. Describimos los microhbitats estacionales de las lagartijas Uta stansburiana, Phrynosoma modestum y Aspidoscelis tigris en las dunas de arena Mdanos de Samalayuca, Chihuahua, Mxico. Uta stansburiana y A. tigris usaron muchos recursos en comn y con frecuencia se observaron bajo mezquites Prosopis glandulosa, el arbusto ms comn y grande en nuestra rea de estudio. En contraste, P. modestum fue ms comn en las reas desprovistas de vegetacin. Uta stansburiana y A. tigris mostraron translapes moderados a altos en la cobertura vegetal y la compactacin del sustrato. Con respecto a Uta stansburiana y A. tigris, P. modestum mostr traslapes bajos a moderados en cuanto al uso de los microhbitats.
23362588|Fossils of five or more genera and six species of lizards were identified from late Pleistocene sediments of Fowlkes Cave, Culberson County, Texas. The most abundant species was the roundtail horned lizard Phrynosoma modestum (45 individuals), a common lizard in the Recent Chihuahuan Desert, but the greatest number of fossils represented 83 individuals of Phrynosomatidae genus and species indeterminate. Fossils identified to at least the generic level appear to represent xeric-adapted lizards that occur in habitats typical of the Chihuahuan Desert that occur around the cave today. Fsiles de cinco gneros o ms y seis especies de lagartijas fueron identificados en los sedimentos del Pleistoceno tardo de la cueva Fowlkes, condado de Culberson, Texas. La especie ms abundante fue la lagartija cornuda de cola redonda Phrynosoma modestum (45 individuos), una lagartija comn del desierto Chihuahua reciente, pero el mayor nmero de fsiles represent 83 individuous del gnero Phrynosomatidae y especies indeterminadas. Los fsiles identificados hasta al menos el nivel genrico, aparentan representar lagartijas adaptadas a condiciones xricas que ocurren en hbitats tpicos del desierto Chihuahua alrededor de la cueva hoy en da.
23362589|I compiled data from several museum collections to map historical distributions of species of bumble bees across Texas. Bombus auricomus, B. bimaculatus, B. fervidus, B. fraternus, B. griseocollis, B. impatiens, B. pensylvanicus, B. sonorus, and B. variabilis were confirmed from the state based on vouchered specimens. As currently understood, the bumble bee fauna of Texas consists of nine documented species. Compil datos de especmenes de varias colecciones de museos para mapear las distribuciones histricas de las especies de abejorros a travs del estado de Texas. Bombus auricomus, B. bimaculatus, B. fervidus, B. fraternus, B. griseocollis, B. impatiens, B. pensylvanicus, B. sonorus y B. variabilis fueron confirmados para el estado basndose en ejemplares registrados. Como se entiende actualmente, la fauna de abejorros de Texas se compone de nueve especies documentadas.
23362590|Because the white-eyed vireo (Vireo griseus) is a less sensitive species than the endangered black-capped vireo (V. atricapilla), it served as a proxy to quantify potentially adverse effects of sampling blood. Success of fledging was quantified using split-sampled broods with non-bled nestlings serving as a control. Sex ratio of broods was determined, and sampling and storage methods for blood were assessed. Obtaining blood from nestlings did not affect success of fledging. The male:female ratio of nestlings was 65:35. Porque el vireo ojiblanco (Vireo griseus) es una especie menos sensible que el vireo gorra negra (V. atricapilla), el cual se encuentra en peligro de extincin, se utiliz V. griseus como sustituto para cuantificar los posibles efectos adversos de la toma de muestras sanguneas. El xito de volar del nido se midi utilizando nidadas de cras muestreadas y cras no muestreadas como control. Se determin la proporcin sexual de las nidadas, y se evaluaron los mtodos de sacar y guardar la sangre. La toma de sangre de las cras no afect el xito de volar del nido. La proporcin de machos a hembras de las nidadas fue de 65:35.
23362591|We examined algae and macrophytes used as habitats by the endangered fountain darter Etheostoma fonticola through examination of six probable microhabitats. Rhizoclonium, Ludwigia repens, and Hydrilla verticillata had the greatest densities of fountain darters, although all six species of plants tested had fountain darters in 5% of samples. The smallest darters were in Rhizoclonium, and the largest were in Potamogeton illinoensis. This likely was due to differences in current velocity among microhabitats. In the San Marcos River, it is important for fountain darters to have vegetated areas with dense cover to provide food, reproductive habitats, and refugia. Examinamos las algas y macrofitas utilizadas para hbitats por Etheostoma fonticola (un pececito en peligro de extincin) a travs de una examinacin de seis probables microhbitats. Rhizoclonium, Ludwigia repens, y Hydrilla verticillata tuvieron las mayores densidades de E. fonticola, aunque todas de seis especies de plantas analizadas tuvieron E. fonticola en 5% de las muestras. Etheostoma fonticola ms pequeos estuvieron en Rhizoclonium, y los dardos ms grandes estuvieron en Potamogeton illinoensis. Esto fue probablemente a causa de las diferencias en la velocidad de la corriente entre los microhbitats. En el ro San Marcos, es importante que E. fonticola tenga reas con vegetacin con cobertura densa que pueda proporcionar alimento, hbitat para reproduccin y refugio.
23362592|To test the hypothesis that Mexican pinyons (Pinus cembroides) and Johannis pines (P. johannis) grow under different environmental conditions, the flora associated with both species was sampled along two 20-m perpendicular transects at 40 sites. Patterns were analyzed with the two-way-indicator-species program, which yielded six groups with Mexican pinyons dominating xeric sites and Johannis pines dominating mesic sites. Other groups of species corresponded to transition from mesic to xeric sites. We used canonical-correspondence analysis to explore the effect of slope and aspect on species and indirectly related them to an underlying moisture gradient. The first ordination axis indicated that aspect explained 59% of the variation, and the second axis, representing slope, explained 41%. Para probar la hiptesis de que los pioneros mexicanos (Pinus cembroides) y los pioneros Johannis (P. johannis) crecen bajo diferentes condiciones ambientales, se muestre la flora asociada a ambas especies a lo largo de dos transectos perpendiculares de 20 m en 40 sitios. Los patrones se analizaron con el programa TWINSPAN, el cual produjo seis grupos, con dominancia del pionero mexicano en sitios xricos, y del pionero Johannis en sitios msicos. Otros grupos de especies correspondieron a los sitios de transicin msicos a xricos. Usamos Anlisis Cannico de Correspondencias para explorar el efecto de la pendiente y la orientacin sobre las especies y relacionarlas indirectamente con un gradiente subyacente de humedad. El primer eje de ordenacin indic que la exposicin explicaba el 59% de la variacin, y el segundo eje, el cual representa la pendiente, explicaba el 41%.
23362593|Information on the reproductive cycle of Uma rufopunctata is presented from a histological examination of specimens collected during May from Sonora, Mexico. The smallest reproductively active male (spermiogenesis in progress) was 81 mm in snoutvent length. Mean size of clutch for 20 females was 2.4  1.0 SD, range = 15. The smallest reproductively active female was 63 mm in snoutvent length. Presence of oviductal eggs and concomitant deposition of yolk in one female during May indicated that U. rufopunctata may produce >1 clutch of eggs in the same reproductive season. Se presenta informacin del ciclo reproductivo de Uma rufopuncta medio de una examinacin histolgica de ejemplares colectados durante el mes de mayo en Sonora, Mxico. El macho ms pequeo reproductivamente activo (con espermognesis en progreso) midi 81 mm de longitud de hocico a cloaca. El tamao promedio de 20 puestas de huevos fue de 2.4  DE, rango = 1 a 5. La hembra ms pequea reproductivamente activa midi 63 mm de longitud de hocico a cloaca. La presencia de huevos en el oviducto y la deposicin de yema concomitante de una hembra durante de mayo indicaron que U. rufopunctata puede producir ms de una puesta de huevos en la misma temporada reproductiva.
23362594|We tested the force-fed-radiotransmitter technique on six adult collared lizards Crotaphytus collaris. We located lizards within their nocturnal refuges using a hand-held Yagi antenna and a portable radioreceiver, and we verified their exact position with a borescope 17 times in 18 trials. Retention time of radiotransmitters in digestive tracts was 34 days. There was no effect on digestion. This technique is best for studies of medium to large lizards that refuge in tight spaces and consequently may rub off externally placed transmitters. Probamos la tcnica de alimentacin forzada de radiotransmisores en seis adultos de lagartijas de collar, Crotaphytus collaris. Localizamos a las lagartijas dentro de su refugio nocturno utilizando una antena Yagi y un radioreceptor porttil, y verificamos la posicin exacta con un endoscopio 17 veces de 18 intentos. El tiempo de retencin de los radiotransmisores en el tracto digestivo fue 34 das. No hubo efecto sobre la digestin. Esta tcnica es mejor en estudios de radiotelemetra en lagartijas medianas y grandes que se refugian en espacios reducidos, lo que limita el uso de radiotransmisores externos.
23362595|In 2000, military macaws (Ara militaris) arrived on Isla San Pedro Nolasco, a desert island near the coast of Sonora, Mexico. The last one was seen in 2009. This is the first report of this macaw on an island in the Gulf of California, Mexico. En el ao 2000, algunos individuos de la guacamaya verde (Ara militaris) arribaron a la isla San Pedro Nolasco, una isla desierta cercana a la costa de Sonora, Mxico. El ltimo individuo fue visto en 2009. Este es el primer registro de la presencia de guacamayas verdes en una isla del Golfo de California, Mxico.
23362596|On seven occasions, an American badger (Taxidea taxus) was observed moving within ca. 0.3 m deep tire-ruts on a two-track road, conducting covert reconnaissance of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus). In one instance, the American badger moved from the tire-ruts, hid in vegetation ca. 0.5 m tall, and then successfully ambushed a black-tailed prairie dog. Sobre un camino de doble va observamos en siete ocasiones a un tejn americano (Taxidea taxus) movilizndose dentro de los surcos de llantas con ca. 0.3 m de profundidad. El tejn estaba llevando a cabo un sondeo cauteloso de los perritos de pradera de cola negra (Cynomys ludovicianus). Una vez, el tejn americano se sali de los surcos, se escondi en vegetacin de ca. 0.5 m de alto, y procedi a emboscar exitosamente a un perrito de pradera de cola negra.
23362597|Texas has 215 native herpetofaunal species. We visually summarized herpetofaunal diversity across Texas to identify species-rich counties and counties that likely are under-surveyed. Mean number of species per county was 53.1. In general, counties in eastern and central Texas had the highest herpetofaunal diversity. The majority of counties in the Panhandle region likely are under-surveyed. In addition to serving as a guide for future surveying efforts, this study provides useful information for landowners and county-development coordinators concerning herpetofaunal conservation and management. Texas tiene 215 especies de herpetofauna nativa. Resumimos visualmente la diversidad de herpetofauna en todo el estado de Texas para identificar los condados ricos en especies y los condados que probablemente no estn bien muestreados. El nmero medio de especies por condado fue de 53.1. En general, los condados en el este y centro de Texas tuvieron la mayor diversidad de herpetofauna. La mayora de los condados en la regin noroeste probablemente no estn bien muestreados. Adems de servir como gua para muestreos en el futuro, este estudio proporciona informacin til para los terratenientes y los coordinadores del desarrollo de condados referente a la conservacin de herpetofauna y su manejo.
23362598|The American badger (Taxidea taxus) has been documented only three times in Arkansas, all in counties of the Ozark physiographic region. Since 2003, 11 new records have been obtained from five counties (Craighead, Crittenden, Lawrence, Marion, Poinsett), mostly in the Mississippi Alluvial Plain physiographic region of northeastern Arkansas. Three of these were photo-documented roadkills (two other roadkills were collected for the mammal museum at Arkansas State University). Another photo-record was obtained by use of a wildlife camera placed at a den, which resulted in discovery of a family group of five individuals; this represents the first record of breeding in Arkansas. Rather than an eastward expansion of range from the Ozark Mountains, we believe the population originated from the alluvial plains of southeastern Missouri. El tejn americano (Taxidea taxus) ha sido documentado solamente tres veces en Arkansas, todas en los condados de la regin fiseogeogrfica Ozark. Desde el 2003, 11 nuevos registros han sido obtenidos de cinco condados (Craighead, Crittenden, Lawrence, Marion, Poinsett), la mayora en la regin fiseogeogrfica Mississippi Alluvial Plain del noreste de Arkansas. Tres de estos fueron documentados fotogrficamente de tejones atropellados por vehculos (dos otros tejones atropellados fueron colectados para el museo de mamferos de Arkansas State University). Otro registro fotogrfico fue obtenido usando una cmara para animales silvestres localizada en una guarida, lo cual result en el descubrimiento de un grupo familiar de cinco individuos; esta representa el primer registro de reproduccin en Arkansas. En vez de una expansin del rango geogrfico de las montaas Ozark, creemos que la poblacin se origin por las llanuras aluviales del sudeste de Missouri.
23362599|Freeze tolerance is the ability of an organism to survive from water in portions of its body freezing due to molecular, biochemical, physiological, or a combination of these adaptations. Within squamates, freeze tolerance is documented or suspected, based on observations of freezing survival in only five species. I report an observation of survival of short-term freezing in the eastern fence lizard, Sceloporus undulatus. La tolerancia al congelamiento es definida como la habilidad de un organismo para sobrevivir ileso al congelamiento del agua en partes de su cuerpo, debido a una o varias adaptaciones moleculares, bioqumicas, y fisiolgicas. En Squamata, la tolerancia al congelamiento ha sido documentada o sospechada nicamente en cinco especies, basado en observaciones de sobrevivencia al congelamiento. Reporto una observacin de tolerancia al congelamiento a corto plazo en la lagartija escamosa de pradera, Sceloporus undulatus.
23362600|We investigated ecology of the American badger (Taxidea taxus) on the Chaparral Wildlife Management Area, La Salle County, Texas, during FebruaryNovember 2002. We trapped five individuals (four males, one female) with a mean (SE) weight of 6.1  0.6 kg. Home ranges and mean daily movements of three males averaged 7.0  3.5 km 2 and 758  801 m, respectively. American badgers did not use habitats in proportion to availability and showed a preference for honey mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa) savannah-acacia (Acacia) shrublands. Burrowing sites were dominated by a honey mesquite-bufflegrass (Pennistum ciliare) association. Estudiamos la ecologa del tejn norteamericano (Taxidea taxus) en el Chaparral Wildlife Management Area, condado de La Salle, en Texas durante febreronoviembre de 2002. Atrapamos cinco individuos (cuatro machos, una hembra) con un peso medio (SE) de 6.1  0.6 kg. El rango de hogar y media de traslados diarios de tres machos tuvieron un promedio de 7.0  3.5 km 2 y 758  801 m, respectivamente. Los tejones norteamericanos no usaron los hbitats en proporcin a su disponibilidad y mostraron una preferencia por matorral de mezquite (Prosopis glandulosa) y huizache (Acacia). Los sitios de madrigueras fueron dominados por una asociacin de mezquite y pasto buffel (Pennistum ciliare).
23362601|We report the first nest of a blue-gray gnatcatcher (Polioptila caerulea) in western Nebraska. The nest was in a red cedar (Juniperus virginiana). The nesting birds reflect an expansion of the breeding range of western populations. Reportamos el primer nido de la perlita azul-gris (Polioptila caerulea) en el oeste de Nebraska. El nido estuvo en un enebro de Virginia (Juniperus virginiana). Estas aves anidando reflejan una expansin del rea geogrfica de la reproduccin de las poblaciones occidentales.
23362665|We provide the first description of behavior in the Catarina pupfish (Megupsilon aporus). Aggressive, courtship, and spawning behaviors resemble those of other North American cyprinodontids. However, M. aporus differs from others in the group in absence of breeding territoriality in males. Male M. aporus often perform opercular rotation during aggressive displays and jaw-nudging during courtship, behaviors that, among other North American cyprinodontids, are absent or known only in Floridichthys. Some unusual features of behavior (lack of territoriality) and morphology (dwarfism; absence of pelvic fins) in M. aporus might have been shaped by interaction with a cohabitant, the Potosi pupfish Cyprinodon alvarezi. Proporcionamos la primera descripcin del comportamiento en el cachorrito enano del Potos (Megupsilon aporus). El comportamiento de agresin, cortejo y desove se asemeja a el de otros cyprinodntidos norteamericanos. Sin embargo, M. aporus difiere de los dems al carecer la territorialidad en machos reproductores. Machos de M. aporus frecuentemente muestran una rotacin opercular durante exhibiciones agresivas y un empujn mandibular durante el cortejo, comportamientos que, entre los cyprinodntidos norteamericanos, estn ausentes o son conocidos solamente en Floridichthys. Algunas de las caractersticas inusuales del comportamiento (falta de la territorialidad) y morfologa (enanismo; ausencia de aletas plvicas) de M. aporus podran haber sido conformadas por la interaccin con un cohabitante, Cyprinodon alvarezi.
23362666|Osgoodomys banderanus (Osgood's deermouse) was studied in January 2006 and 2007 in north-central Colima, Mexico. During 8 nights each year, five mark-recapture grids were established with elevated and ground traps. For 16,000 trap-nights, 123 individuals were captured 385 times (comprising 9.4% of captures on grids); one-third of captures were in elevated traps. The ratio of males to females was 1.51:1 (significantly different from 1:1). No sexual dimorphism in mass was detected, 84.4% were adults, and 41.5% of adult females were pregnant or lactating. Average distance between successive captures was 19.62 m, and average distance from a central point of capture was 12.74 m. Osgoodomys banderanus was captured on 6 of 10 grids (densities 0.7630.55 individuals/ha). Probability of capture or recapture was influenced by trapping night, with probabilities peaking on nights 6 and 7. Habitat preferences were based on 14 environmental variables taken at each trapping station. Logistic regression indicated O. banderanus preferred higher canopies, closer trees, more rocks, and less grass; a model developed with nonparametric multiplicative regression consisted of the first three of these variables. Osgoodomys banderanus exhibited strong preferences for rocky areas with less dense ground cover, a more open understory, and a tall canopy. Osgoodomys banderanus (ratn de Osgood) fue estudiado en enero de 2006 y 2007 en la zona centro-norte de Colima, Mxico, durante ocho noches por cada ao en un estudio de captura y recaptura en cuadrantes. Cada ao se establecieron cinco cuadrantes con trampas arbreas y sobre el suelo. Para 16,000 trampas-noches, 123 individuos fueron capturados 385 veces (que corresponde a 9.4% de las capturas en los cuadrantes) y una tercera parte de las capturas fueron en trampas arbreas. La proporcin macho-hembra fue 1.51:1 (significativamente diferente de 1:1). No se encontr dimorfismo sexual en peso, 84.4% fueron adultos, y 41.5% de las hembras adultas estaban preadas o lactando. La distancia promedio entre capturas sucesivas fue de 19.62 m, y la distancia promedio desde un punto central de captura fue de 12.74 m. Osgoodomys banderanus fue capturado en 6 de 10 cuadrantes con densidades de 0.7630.55 individuos/ha. La probabilidad de captura o recaptura fue influenciada por trampa-noche, con la mayor probabilidad entre la 6a. y 7a. noche. Preferencias de hbitat se evaluaron usando medidas de 14 variables ambientales registradas en cada estacin de trampeo. Regresin logstica indic que sitios frecuentados por O. banderanus tuvieron el dosel ms alto, rboles ms cercanos, ms rocas y menos pastos; un modelo desarrollado con regresin multiplicativa no paramtrica consisti de las tres primeras variables. Osgoodomys banderanus mostr una fuerte preferencia por reas rocosas con menor densidad en la cobertura del suelo y con un sotobosque ms abierto y dosel alto.
23362667|During March 2001December 2003, we measured use of forage and height of stubble in pastures at low, middle, and high elevations. In years with higher precipitation, use of forage by cattle (Bos taurus) and elk (Cervus elaphus) was less in the middle elevation compared to low and high elevations. In the worst drought year on record (2002), use of forage increased with elevation. Overall, use of forage was greater in 2002 than in 2001 and 2003. Shorter stubble corresponded to lower production and higher use of forage. Total use of forage did not exceed 50%. Durante el periodo entre marzo de 2001 y diciembre de 2003, medimos el uso del forraje y la altura del rastrojo en pastizales de elevaciones bajas, medianas y altas. En los aos con la precipitacin ms alta, el uso del forraje por ganado (Bos taurus) y elk (Cervus elaphus) fue menor en elevaciones intermedias, comparado con el uso en elevaciones bajas y altas. En el ao con el record de sequa ms severa registrada en la zona (2002), se observ un incremento en el uso del forraje con la elevacin. En general, el uso del forraje fue mayor en 2002 que en 2001 y 2003. Los rastrojos ms bajos correspondieron a la produccin ms baja y a un mayor uso del forraje. El uso total del forraje no excedi el 50%.
23362668|During 2009 and 2010, we observed common side-blotched lizards (Uta stansburiana) in two types of vegetation along the Virgin River in Nevada and Arizona: monotypic stands of nonnative saltcedars (Tamarix) and mixed stands of cottonwoods (Populus fremontii), willows (Salix gooddingii), mesquites (Prosopis), and saltcedar trees. Using mark-recapture techniques, parameters were recorded from 233 individual lizards. We detected no significant difference in parameters between monotypic stands of nonnative saltcedars and mixed vegetation. However, lizards selected habitats having a more open vegetative structure and parameters were correlated negatively with canopy cover. Greatest canopy cover occurred in sites having >65% stem counts for saltcedar trees. Our results suggest that common side-blotched lizards use habitats with similar structural characteristics in both mixed and nonnative vegetation, and that they avoid sites with dense canopy cover as in the densest stands of saltcedars. Durante 2009 y 2010, observamos las lagartijas costado manchado (Uta stansburiana) en dos tipos de vegetacin a lo largo del ro Virgin en Nevada y Arizona: rodales de cedro salado (Tamarix) no nativo y rodales mixtos de lamo (Populus fremontii), sauce (Salix gooddingii), mezquite (Prosopis), y cedro salado. Utilizando tcnicas de marca-recaptura, obtuvimos parmetros poblacionales de 233 individuos. No encontramos ninguna diferencia significativa en los parmetros entre lugares dominados por el cedro salado y lugares con vegetacin mixta. Sin embargo, las lagartijas seleccionaron hbitats que tienen una estructura de vegetacin ms abierta y los parmetros se correlacionaron negativamente con la cobertura del dosel vegetal. El dosel vegetal mayor fue encontrado en sitios donde >65% del conteo de tallos fue de cedro salado. Nuestros resultados sugieren que las lagartijas costado manchado utilizan hbitats con similares caractersticas estructurales tanto de vegetacin mixta como de vegetacin no nativa, y evitan sitios con un dosel vegetal denso, tales como se encuentran en rodales densos nicamente de cedro salado.
23362669|The systematic and conservation-genetic status of a population of the cyprinid genus Dionda in Alamito Creek, a tributary of the Rio Grande in Big Bend Ranch State Park, Presidio County, Texas, was assessed using mtDNA sequences and nuclear-encoded microsatellites. Phylogenetic analyses of the mitochondrial cytochrome b (cytb) gene revealed that the Dionda in Alamito Creek likely is conspecific with an undescribed species (Dionda species 1) known only from the Ro Conchos and Ro Nazas basins of Mexico and in the USA from Cibolo Creek, a small tributary of the Rio Grande drainage. Genetic variation of Dionda in Alamito Creek is extremely low. All 18 fish assayed for 1,533 base pairs of mitochondrial mtDNA (cytb and ND5 sequences) had the same haplotype, and 40 fish assayed for 34 nuclear-encoded microsatellites (25 monomorphic) averaged only 1.44 alleles/microsatellite (H E = 0.12). Estimates of current effective size (N e ) and effective number of breeders (N b ) were 22 and 28, respectively. Bayesian coalescent analysis indicated that the population has undergone a greater than three-orders-of-magnitude decline in effective size. Low genetic diversity and low estimates of N e and N b indicate that the population is compromised genetically and warrants monitoring and attention to its official conservation status. Evaluamos el estatus sistemtico y la gentica de conservacin de una poblacin del gnero ciprnido (Dionda) colectada en el arroyo Alamito, un tributario del ro Grande en el Big Bend Ranch State Park, condado de Presidio, Texas, usando secuencias de ADN mitocondrial y microsatlites nucleares. Anlisis filogenticos del gen mitocondrial citocromo b (cytb) indicaron que los individuos de Dionda en el arroyo Alamito son probablemente conspecficos de una especie previamente no descrita (Dionda species 1), reportada solamente en las cuencas de los ros Conchos y Nazas en Mxico y en los USA en la cuenca del riachuelo Cibolo, un tributario pequeo del ro Grande. Variacin gentica en Dionda del arroyo Alamito es extremadamente baja. Los 18 peces analizados exhibieron el mismo haplotipo mitocondrial para las 1,533 bases secuenciadas (cytb y ND5), y los 40 individuos analizados usando 34 microsatlites nucleares (25 de los cuales fueron mono-mrficos) promediaron slo 1.44 alelos/microsatlite (H E = 0.12). Estimaciones del tamao efectivo actual de la poblacin (N e ) y del nmero efectivo de individuos reproductivos (N b ) fueron 22 y 28, respectivamente. Mtodos coalescentes Bayesianos indicaron que el tamao efectivo de la poblacin ha sido reducido por encima de tres rdenes de magnitud. El bajo nivel de variacin gentica y estimaciones bajas de N e y N b indican que la poblacin est comprometida genticamente y merece un monitoreo y una clarificacin de su estado de conservacin oficial.
23362670|We studied how age affects selection of foraging microhabitats, foraging behaviors, and rates of vigilance in the black phoebe (Sayornis nigricans). Juveniles generally perched higher in trees than adults and in areas with higher intensity of light, which may increase the difficulty of visually tracking prey. Juveniles allocated more effort to visual searching prior to a foraging attempt and flew farther than adults to capture a prey item. When at rest on a perch, juveniles monitored the environment more slowly than adults, suggesting lower levels of vigilance. In general, our results suggest that differences between ages in foraging behavior of visually guided predators may be influenced by intensity of ambient light in their foraging territories. Estudiamos como la edad afecta la seleccin de microhbitats de forrajeo, el comportamiento de forrajeo, y las tasas de vigilancia del mosquero negro (Sayornis nigricans). Los juveniles se hallaron en perchas ms altas en los rboles que los adultos y en reas con mayor intensidad de luz, lo que puede aumentar la dificultad de rastrear visualmente a la presa. Los juveniles asignaron un esfuerzo mayor a la bsqueda visual de presa antes de un intento de depredacin y se desplazaron una distancia mayor para capturar a las presas que los adultos. Cuando descansaron en una percha, los juveniles monitorearon el entorno ms lentamente que los adultos, lo que sugiere niveles menores de vigilancia. En general, nuestros resultados sugieren que las diferencias de edad en el comportamiento de alimentacin de predadores visuales estn influenciadas por la intensidad de luz en sus territorios de forrajeo.
23362671|A fossiliferous remnant of a small lacustrine unit was discovered in an arroyo midway between the Santa Catalina Mountains and the San Pedro River, Pinal County, Arizona. Radiocarbon dates provided a range of 27,000 to 12,000 years before present for existence of the impoundment and accumulation of sediments and enclosed fossils. Mammuthus, Mammut, and Equus formed the megafauna. Mollusks and pollen provided additional evidence for a paleoenvironmental reconstruction of the local area as a pond or small natural impoundment for this late Pleistocene locality. Un residuo de una pequea unidad fosilfera lacustre fue descubierto en un arroyo entre las montaas Santa Catalina y el ro San Pedro en el condado de Pinal en Arizona. Las fechas por radiocarbono proporcionaron el rango de 27,000 a 12,000 aos antes del presente para la existencia del pantano y la acumulacin de los sedimentos y los fsiles atrapados. [Introduction] Mammuthus, Mammut, y Equus formaron la megafauna. Moluscos y polen proporcionaron evidencia adicional para la reconstruccin paleoambiental del rea local como un estanque o un pequeo charco natural para esta localidad del Pleistoceno tardo.
23362672|We studied the reproductive cycle of Sceloporus spinosus from Laguna La Preciosa, Puebla, Mexico, elevation 2,400 m. There was no sexual dimorphism in snoutvent length (males, 87.5 mm; females, 88.8 mm). Gonadal mass varied monthly and was related to snoutvent length; both sexes had a synchronous reproductive cycle that peaked in late winter and early spring. In males, recrudescence occurred NovemberJanuary with abundant primary and secondary spermatocytes. Maximum testicular mass was in February when seminiferous tubules showed spermiogenesis and spermatozoa were in the lumen and epididymis. Regression was evident in April, when testicular mass decreased, and it continued in May, although spermatozoa were in seminiferous tubules and lumen of epididymal ducts. In JulySeptember, testicular mass was less, and only spermatogonias, Sertoli cells, and remains of sperm were in seminiferous tubules. In females, vitellogenesis began in late autumn, maximum deposition of yolk was in March, and ovulation was in April. Oviductal eggs were present in AprilJune and oviposition was in JuneJuly. In AugustSeptember, only previtellogenic and atretic follicles were present; hatchlings were present in September. Size of clutch was 617 eggs and correlated with snoutvent length. One clutch is produced per reproductive season. Reproductive activity in both sexes was distinct from spring-summer activity in tropical sceloporines from high elevations, but was similar to other lizards in northern temperate areas. Estudiamos el ciclo reproductor de Sceloporus spinosus de la laguna La Preciosa, Puebla, Mxico, a una elevacin de 2,400 m. No hubo dimorfismo sexual en la longitud hocico cloaca de machos (87.5 mm) y hembras (88.8 mm). La masa gonadal vari mensualmente y se correlacion con la longitud hocico cloaca; ambos sexos tuvieron un ciclo reproductor sincrnico con una mxima actividad a fines del invierno y principios de la primavera. En los machos, la recrudescencia ocurri de noviembre a enero con abundantes espermatocitos primarios y secundarios. La mxima masa testicular fue en febrero cuando los tbulos seminferos mostraron espermiognesis y espermatozoides se encontraron en la luz y en los conductos del epiddimo. La regresin fue evidente en abril, cuando decreci la masa testicular y se continu en mayo, aunque espermatozoides estuvieron presentes en la luz de los tbulos seminferos y en los conductos del epiddimo. De julio a septiembre la masa testicular se redujo y slo espermatogonias, clulas de Sertoli y restos de espermatozoides permanecieron en los tbulos seminferos. En las hembras la vitelognesis inici a fines del otoo, el mximo depsito de vitelo fue en marzo y la ovulacin en abril. Los huevos en el oviducto estuvieron presentes de abril a junio y la ovoposicin fue en junio-julio. De agosto a septiembre slo folculos previtelognicos y atrsicos estuvieron presentes; los recin eclosionados aparecieron en septiembre. El tamao de la puesta fue de 6 a 17 huevos y se correlacion con la longitud hocico cloaca. Slo una puesta es producida por estacin reproductora. La actividad reproductora en ambos sexos fue diferente de la actividad de primaveraverano de sceloporinos tropicales de elevaciones altas, pero fue similar a la de otros lacertilios de reas templadas norteas.
23362673|Numbers of species and individuals in the herpetofauna of Village Creek State Park, Hardin County, Texas, were compared before and after Hurricane Rita. Number of species in the entire park remained stable after the hurricane. However, there was a significant increase in numbers of species and individuals in some habitats within the park. Changes in the herpetofauna may be attributable to a massive tree-fall caused by Hurricane Rita, which opened the canopy and increased coarse woody debris within the park. El nmero de las especies y de los individuos en la herpetofauna de Village Creek State Park, condado de Hardin, Texas, fueron comparados antes y despus del huracn Rita. El nmero de especies qued estable dentro del parque despus del huracn. Los cambios en la herpetofauna se pueden atribuir a una cada masiva de los arboles causada por el huracn Rita, que abri el dosel y aument los restos gruesos de rboles dentro del parque.
23362674|We explored a rapid-assessment protocol for Chamaedorea radicalis, an understory palm from which leaves are harvested for use in the cut-greens industry. We developed a multiple-regression model relating the finite rate of population growth to vegetative and reproductive variables from a 4-year demographic study across leaf-harvesting treatments in Reserva de la Biosfera El Cielo, Tamaulipas, Mexico. The resulting model, including total fecundity of adults and mean number of leaflets, was applied to 21 populations of C. radicalis using measurements collected from a single season. Predicted estimates of population-growth rate were 0.941.27, but 20 of the 21 populations had predictions bracketing the net-replacement rate = 1 for population growth. We then implemented a fixed-design, life-table-response experiment to explore whether measurements of annual transition probabilities provided a superior assessment; however, addition of transition probabilities only marginally increased predictive power of the model. Therefore, implementation of this protocol is limited by imprecision of estimates of population-growth rate. Hemos explorado un mtodo de evaluacin rpida para Chamaedorea radicalis, una palma del sotobosque en el que las hojas se cosechan para su uso en la industria de follaje verde. Hemos desarrollado un modelo de regresin mltiple que relaciona la tasa finita de crecimiento de las poblaciones a las variables vegetativas y reproductivas de un estudio demogrfico de 4 aos a travs de tratamientos de cosecha de hojas en la Reserva de la Biosfera El Cielo, Mxico. El modelo resultante, incluyendo la fecundidad total de adultos y el nmero medio de foliolos, se aplic a 21 poblaciones de C. radicalis utilizando medidas tomadas en una sola temporada. Las estimaciones previstas de la tasa de crecimiento de las poblaciones vari desde 0.94 hasta 1.27, pero en 20 de las 21 poblaciones hubo intrvalos de prediccin incluyendo la tasa de sustitucin neta = 1 de la tasa de crecimiento de las poblaciones. Por consiguiente implementamos un experimento de respuesta de tablas de vida de diseo-fijo para explorar si las medidas de las tasas anuales de transicin proporcionan una evaluacin superior; sin embargo, la adicin de las tasas de transicin slo ligeramente aument la capacidad predictiva del modelo. Por lo tanto, la aplicacin de este mtodo es limitada por la imprecisin de las estimaciones de la tasa de crecimiento de las poblaciones.
23362675|We analyzed composition and structure of a bottomland forest in north-central Texas that was a form of the sugarberry-cedar elm-pecan (Celtis laevigata variety laevigata-Ulmus crassifolia-Carya illinoinensis) forest, which is widespread in south-central North America. The forest had three layers: upper canopy of dominant trees, under canopy of shorter trees and shrubs, and herbaceous zone of native C3 grasses with annual and perennial forbs. Sugarberry and cedar elm were dominant trees with greatest density and regeneration in advanced successional stages, whereas pecan was established in earlier seral stages and persisted as a dominant with largest individual trees and less regeneration. Other important native species of trees included red mulberry (Morus rubra) and bois d'arc (Maclura pomifera). Canada wildrye (Elymus canadensis) and broadleaf woodoats (Chasmanthium latifolium) were dominants of the herbaceous layer. The most common forbs were giant ragweed (Ambrosia trifida variety texana) and pigeonberry (Rivina humilis). Peak standing crop of herbage was 1,597 kg/ha. Se analizaron la composicin y estructura de un bosque de tierras bajas en el norte-centro de Texas que era una forma del bosque de Celtis laevigata variedad laevigata-Ulmus crassifolia-Carya illinoinensis que est muy extendido en el centro-sur de Norteamrica. El bosque tiene tres capas: dosel superior de los rboles dominantes, dosel inferior de los rboles ms bajos y arbustos, y zona herbcea de pastos nativos C3 con hierbas anuales y perennes. Celtis l. laevigata y U. crassifolia fueron rboles dominantes con mayor densidad y regeneracin en etapas avanzadas de sucesin, mientras que C. illinoinensis se estableci en las primeras etapas seriales y persisti como dominante con rboles individuales ms grandes y menos regeneracin. Otras especies nativas importantes incluyeron morera rojo (Morus rubra) y naranjo de Luisiana (Maclura pomifera). Elimo canadiense (Elymus canadensis) y de verdolaga hoja ancha (Chasmanthium latifolium) fueron dominantes en el estrato herbceo. Las hierbas ms comunes eran ambrosa (Ambrosia trifida variedad texana) y coralillo (Rivina humilis). El pico de la biomasa vegetal fue 1,597 kg/ha.
23362676|During June 2009June 2010, we collected 561 actively mating female familiar bluets Enallagma civile. Although only ca. 25% of these subsequently laid eggs in the laboratory, size of clutch averaged 250 eggs (range, 11,047). Overall, there was a high average rate of hatching success (75.8%). Size of females, in terms of width of head capsule, a non-labile trait in adults, was not significantly associated with metrics of fitness. Hatching success was associated positively with length of eggs (indicating that size of eggs may be an indicator of quality of eggs) and negatively related to duration of hatching. Entre junio del 2009 y junio del 2010, colectamos 561 hembras de caballitos del diablo Enallagma civile que estaban en poca de apareamiento. Aunque slo ca. 25% de ellas pusieron huevos en el laboratorio, el tamao promedio de la nidada fue de 250 huevos (rango de 11,047). En total, hubo un promedio alto de eclosin (75.8%). El tamao de la hembra, en trminos del ancho de la cpsula de la cabeza, una caracterstica no lbil en adultos, no fue asociado significativamente con la capacidad reproductiva. El xito de eclosin fue asociado positivamente con la longitud del huevo (indicando que el tamao del huevo puede medir la calidad del huevo) y negativamente relacionado con la duracin de la incubacin.
23362677|We report on gonopodial structures in the western mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis) including forked distal hooks and presence-absence of the elbow and gap. In addition, we present information on gonopodial variation across the Trinity, San Jacinto, and Brazos river drainages in Texas. Reportamos la estructuras gonopodiales en el pez-mosquito (Gambusia affinis) incluyendo las horquillas de los ganchos distales y presencia-ausencia del codo y brechas del gonopodio. Adems, se presenta informacin sobre la variabilidad en el gonopodio a travs de las cuencas de los ros Trinity, San Jacinto, y Brazos en Texas.
23362678|We report the first record of the greater mastiff bat Eumops perotis from Oklahoma. This specimen represents a 1,000 km range extension from the nearest reported occurrences in the Trans Pecos and Big Bend regions of Texas. Reportamos el primer registro del gran murcilago mastn Eumops perotis de Oklahoma. Este espcimen representa una extensin de 1,000 km de los registros ms cercanos en las regiones de Trans Pecos y Big Bend de Texas.
23362679|In Yellow Jacket Canyon, a small tributary stream in the San Juan River basin, Montezuma County, Colorado, we collected 11 subadult Colorado pikeminnows Ptychocheilus lucius during 20072010. Collection of these fish within this small tributary is significant given the distance of the sampling location to the mainstem San Juan River, sizes of Colorado pikeminnows collected, and documented association with mainstem river habitats. Subadults appear to be using Yellow Jacket Canyon on a regular basis. En el Yellow Jacket Canyon, un afluente pequeo localizado dentro de la cuenca del ro San Juan en el condado de Montezuma, Colorado, colectamos once subadultos de charalitos de Colorado (Ptychocheilus lucius) durante 2007 a 2010. La colecta de estos peces dentro de este afluente pequeo es significativa a causa de la distancia al ro San Juan principal, el tamao de los charalitos de Colorado colectados y la asociacin documentada de esta especie con hbitats de ros grandes. Parece que los subadultos usan el Yellow Jacket Canyon con regularidad.
23362680|We report the first records of use of tents by the big fruit-eating bat Artibeus lituratus in palm fronds of Sabal mexicana. We found 110 A. lituratus in three modified palm fronds. Architecture of tents corresponds to an umbrella tent. Individuals of A. lituratus could use tents as alternative roosts and they may display opportunistic behavior in use of tents. Reportamos los primeros registros del uso de tiendas por parte del murcilago frutero ggante Artibeus lituratus en frondas de palma de Sabal mexicana. Encontramos de 110 A. lituratus en tres frondas de palmas modificadas. La arquitectura de las tiendas corresponde a la conocida como sombrilla. Individuos de A. lituratus podran utilizar tiendas como refugios alternativos y pueden mostrar un comportamiento oportunista en cuanto al uso de tiendas.
23362681|We report the first leucistic guanaco (Lama guanicoe) in the Andes Mountains of northwestern Argentina. In January 2011, an atypical guanaco was sighted near Socompa Volcano. Reportamos el primer guanaco blanco (Lama guanicoe) en la cordillera de los Andes del noroeste de Argentina. En enero de 2011, observamos un guanaco atpico cerca del volcn Socompa.
23362682|One cestode, Mesocestoides variabilis (2/8, 25%), and two nematodes, Ancylostoma caninum (1/8, 12.5%) and Spirocerca lupi (1/8, 12.5%), are recorded from three of eight (37.5%) red foxes Vulpes vulpes for the first time from New Mexico. All helminths have been found previously in red foxes. Un cestodo, Mesocestoides variabilis (2/8, 25%), y dos nemtodos, Ancylostoma caninum (1/8, 12.5%) y Spirocerca lupi (1/8, 12.5%), fueron documentados en tres de ocho individuos (37.5%) de zorros rojos Vulpes vulpes por primera vez en Nuevo Mxico. Previamente todos los helmintos han sido encontrados en zorros rojos.
23362683|We examined abundance and diversity of arthropods in nests of lark sparrows (Chondestes grammacus). No true ectoparasite occurred in the nests sampled (n = 69) and no ectoparasite was found on nestlings. However, 67% of nests contained non-parasitic arthropods from 16 families. There was no significant difference in number of arthropods per gram of nesting material or diversity (at familial to higher taxonomic order) with height of nest (ground or arboreal), date of nesting, duration of activity per nesting attempt, mean or maximum temperature of nest, and frequency of prescribed burning of the habitat, or in relation to nest-building by two species of birds (lark sparrows and northern mockingbirds Mimus polyglottos). Examinamos la abundancia y diversidad de artrpodos en nidos de Chondestes grammacus. Ningn ectoparsito verdadero fue encontrado en la muestra de nidos (n = 69 nidos), tampoco se identificaron ectoparsitos en cras de C. grammacus. Sin embargo, 67% de los nidos tenan artrpodos no-parasitarios de 16 familias. No encontramos diferencias significativas en el nmero de artrpodos por gramo de material del nido ni diversidad taxonmica (al nivel de familia o ms alto) en relacin con la altura del nido (terrestre o arbreo), fecha de anidacin, duracin de la actividad por intento de anidacin, promedio o mxima temperatura del nido, y frecuencia de quema prescrita del hbitat, o en relacin a la construccin de nidos de dos especies de aves (C. grammacus y Mimus polyglottos).
23362684|During May 2009June 2010, we obtained five photographs of different margays (Leopardus wiedii) and photographs of two different bobcats (Lynx rufus) in tropical dry forests at Reserva de la Biosfera Sierra de Huautla, Morelos, Mexico. These are the first confirmed records of the margay in Morelos and of the bobcat in the reserve. Records of the margay represent an expansion of its known range in central Mexico. Entre mayo 2009 y junio 2010, registramos cinco fotos de diferentes margayes (Leopardus wiedii) y dos fotos de diferentes gatos monteses (Lynx rufus) en sitios de selva baja caducifolia en la Reserva de la Biosfera Sierra de Huautla, Morelos, Mxico. Estos registros son la primera evidencia confirmada del margay en Morelos y del gato monts en la reserva. Los registros de margay expanden su rango conocido en el centro de Mxico.
23362685|We present records of the first specimens of the collared anteater (Tamandua mexicana) from Tamaulipas, Mexico. We document the northernmost locality of this Neotropical species, extending the known geographical distribution into northeastern Mexico. Presentamos los registros de los primeros especmenes del oso hormiguero (Tamandua mexicana) para Tamaulipas, Mxico. Documentamos la localidad ms nortea de esta especie Neotropical, ampliando la distribucin conocida en el noreste de Mxico.
23362686|We provide the first report of the jaguar (Panthera onca) as a host of the black-legged tick (Ixodes scapularis). This is the first record of this ectoparasite in wild felids in Mexico. Reportamos el primer registro de jaguar (Panthera onca) como un hospedero de la garrapata (Ixodes scapularis). Este registro constituye el primero para este ectoparsito en felinos silvestres en Mxico.
23362687|We observed a greater roadrunner (Geococcyx californianus) kill a juvenile desert cottontail (Sylvilagus audubonii) in Anza Borrego State Park, San Diego County, California. We estimated that the cottontail was several weeks old based on its pelage, length of ear, and size relative to the roadrunner. This is the largest prey known to be captured by a roadrunner. Observamos a un correcaminos norteo (Geococcyx californianus) matar a un juvenil del conejo del desierto (Sylvilagus audubonii) en el Parque Estatal Anza Borrego, condado de San Diego, California. Estimamos que el conejo del desierto tena varias semanas de edad basado en su pelaje, longitud de la oreja y tamao relativo al correcaminos. Esta es la presa ms larga capturada por un correcaminos que se conoce.
23362688|We report a live Pecos bluntnose shiner (Notropis simus pecosensis) with a dead, major-worker, carpenter ant (Camponotus vicinus) locked onto its lower jaw. The shiner apparently ingested the ant. Reportamos el hallazgo de una carpita chata del ro Pecos (Notropis simus pecosensis) vivo con un trabajador mayor muerto de una hormiga carpintera (Camponotus vicinus) encajada en su mandbula inferior. Al parecer, el pez ingiri la hormiga.
24643653|Proper management of grasslands and shrublands requires an understanding of the factors that influence the persistence of organisms. We compare differences in vegetation between sites occupied by the lesser prairie-chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) and random sites to investigate composition of grasses and forbs and the importance of cover. We observed that birds selected habitat, at least in part, based on composition of grasses and forbs. There was generally a larger variance in diversity of plants for random sites compared to sites associated with presence of lesser prairie-chicken. The role of vegetative cover in selection of habitat is important for avoidance of predators, but use of cover also is a means of thermoregulation. Risk-sensitive behavior is a trade-off between avoiding predation and suitable microclimate. We report evidence that the lesser prairie-chicken consistently seeks to limit the risk of predation and selects locales with a favorable microclimate; birds select sites more or less exposed depending on apparent temperature. We infer that selection of habitat by the lesser prairie-chicken is the result of composition of species of plants, avoidance of predators, and thermoregulation, with the lekking mating system of this bird also playing a role. This declining species might face increasing threats as some practices of land management alter structure of vegetation and reduce shrub cover. El manejo adecuado de los pastizales y matorrales requiere una comprensin de los factores que influyen en la persistencia de los organismos. Se comparan las diferencias de vegetacin entre sitios ocupados por el pollo de la pradera menor (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) y sitios al azar para investigar la composicin de pastos y hierbas y la importancia de la cubierta. Observamos que las aves seleccionaron el hbitat, al menos en parte, basndose en la composicin de pastos y hierbas. En general hubo una variacin mayor en la diversidad de la vegetacin de los sitios al azar en comparacin con los sitios asociados con la presencia del pollo de la pradera menor. El papel de la cubierta vegetal en la seleccin de hbitat es importante para evitar a los depredadores, pero el uso de la cubierta es tambin un medio de termorregulacin. El comportamiento sensible al riesgo es una concesin mutua entre evitar la depredacin y conseguir un microclima adecuado. Se presenta evidencia de que el pollo de la pradera menor constantemente trata de limitar el riesgo de depredacin y de seleccionar lugares con un microclima favorable; las aves seleccionan los sitios ms o menos expuestos dependiendo de la temperatura ambiental. Se infiere que la seleccin del hbitat del pollo de la pradera menor es el resultado de la composicin de especies de plantas, de evitar a los depredadores, y de la termorregulacin, con el sistema de apareamiento lek de esta ave tambin jugando un papel importante. Esta especie en declive puede encontrar amenazas crecientes debido a que algunas prcticas de manejo de la tierra alteran la estructura de la vegetacin y reducen la cobertura de arbustos.
24643654|Most lowland rivers in the southwestern United States have been impounded, diverted, or dewatered. Lack of flooding due to river impoundments on the Middle Rio Grande has contributed to the spread of exotic vegetation such as Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia) and saltcedar (Tamarix) associated with fuel loads of dense understory. Management has largely focused on thinning of understory vegetation to remove nonnative species and reduce fire risk, but it is unclear how these actions impact avian populations. Using distance-sampling methods, we quantified densities of five groups of birds (birds nesting in canopy, midstory, and understory; water-obligates; and spring migrants) across 12 types of vegetation spanning managed and nonmanaged stands. We used a space-for-time substitution model to estimate changes in abundance of birds from scenarios that applied four possible options for management at the landscape scale. One option, mechanical clearing of cottonwood understory, had severe detrimental impacts for abundances of the three nesting guilds and spring migrants when applied across the study area. A hand-thinning method to remove most exotics but retain native shrubs and the ground layer also negatively impacted birds nesting in understory but had positive or no effect on the other four groups of birds. Over the short term (510 years), not clearing would increase the proportion of native and nonnative understory and generally increase abundances of birds. With application of "no management" over a longer period (5075 years), we assumed transition of most cottonwood (Populus deltoides var. wislizeii) stands to shrublands of Russian olive and projected that canopy-nesting birds would decrease but other groups would increase. A scenario of wetland restoration that converted 25% of open habitat to wetland increased abundances of understory-nesting birds slightly and water-obligate birds substantially. Our projections of changes in avian populations will help managers evaluate biological impacts of management being considered for the Middle Rio Grande. La mayora de los ros de tierra baja del suroeste de los Estados Unidos ha sido embalsada, desviada, o deshidratada. La falta de inundaciones debido a embalses de la parte media del ro Bravo ha contribuido a la propagacin de vegetacin extica como el olivo ruso (Elaeagnus angustifolia) y el cedro salado (Tamarix), asociada con cargas de combustible del sotobosque denso. El manejo se ha enfocado en disminuir la vegetacin del sotobosque para remover las especies no nativas y reducir los riesgos de incendios, pero no es claro el impacto que estas acciones tienen sobre las poblaciones aviarias. Por medio de mtodos de muestreo a distancia, cuantificamos las abundancias de cinco grupos de aves (pjaros que anidan en el dosel, el estrato medio y el sotobosque; obligados al agua; y especies migratorias primaverales) en 12 tipos de vegetacin en parcelas manejadas y no manejadas. Utilizamos un modelo de sustitucin de espacio por tiempo para estimar los cambios de abundancia de aves en escenarios que aplicaron cuatro posibles opciones para manejo a escala de paisaje. Una opcin, la limpieza mecnica de lamos del sotobosque, tuvo impactos negativos severos sobre la abundancia de los tres grupos de aves segn su anidacin y las especies migratorias primaverales cuando se aplic a toda el rea de estudio. El mtodo de limpieza manual para remover la mayora de las especies exticas y mantener los arbustos nativos y el sotobosque tambin impact negativamente a las aves anidando en el sotobosque pero tuvo un impacto positivo o neutro en los otros cuatro grupos de aves. A corto plazo (510 aos), no limpiar incrementara la proporcin del sotobosque nativo y no nativo y en general incrementara la abundancia de aves. Con la aplicacin de "no-manejo" a largo plazo (5075 aos), asumimos la transicin de la mayora de las parcelas de lamos (Populus deltoides var. wislizeii) a matorrales de olivos rusos y proyectamos que las aves que anidan en el dosel disminuirn pero las aves de los otros grupos se incrementarn. Un escenario de restauracin de humedales que convirti 25% del hbitat abierto a humedales increment la abundancia de las aves anidando en el sotobosque en poca medida pero increment sustancialmente la abundancia de las aves ligadas a agua. Nuestras proyecciones sobre los cambios en las poblaciones de aves ayudarn a evaluar los impactos biolgicos del manejo siendo considerado para la parte medio del ro Bravo.
24643655|The Rio Grande and its tributaries in the Trans-Pecos region of Texas have been impacted by a variety of anthropogenic activities such as dewatering and the introduction of nonnative species. These environmental manipulations have negatively affected the native fishes leading to extirpations and declining populations throughout the region. Campostoma ornatum and Notropis chihuahua inhabit tributary streams of the Rio Grande in the Trans-Pecos region and are considered as state-listed threatened species. Little is known about their status and ecological requirements in the region. We hypothesized that the distribution and abundance of these threatened minnows in these spring-fed habitats can be modeled by two primary factors: local environmental conditions that are maintained by spring flow and the abundance of introduced species such as the plains killifish, Fundulus zebrinus. We used classification and regression trees to analyze variation in abundance and incidence of the target species from Alamito, Terlingua, and Tornillo creeks, as well as the Rio Grande proper based on local environmental factors (e.g., size of stream and water quality), abundance of nonnative species, season, and distance from the Rio Grande. The analyses indicated that distance from the Rio Grande, maximum depth, and composition of substrate were the most important predictors for the abundance and occurrence of the target species in the region. El ro Bravo y sus tributarios en la regin Trans-Pecos de Texas han sido afectados por una variedad de actividades antropognicas tales como la disecacin y la introduccin de especies no nativas. Estas manipulaciones ambientales han afectado negativamente a los peces nativos, llevndolos a la extirpacin y a la disminucin poblacional a travs de la regin. Campostoma ornatum y Notropis chihuahua habitan arroyos tributarios del ro Bravo en la regin Trans-Pecos y son considerados como amenazados por el estado. Se sabe poco sobre su estado y requerimientos ecolgicos en la regin. Planteamos que la distribucin y abundancia de estos peces amenazados en estos arroyos de manantiales pueden ser modelados por dos factores principales: 1) condiciones ambientales locales que son mantenidas por el flujo del manantial, y 2) la abundancia de las especies introducidas como los Fundulus zebrinus. Usamos la clasificacin y rboles de regresin para analizar la variacin en la abundancia e incidencia de las especies focales de Alamito, Terlingua y Tornillo Creeks, as como tambin del ro Bravo, basndonos en factores ambientales locales (por ejemplo, tamao del arroyo y calidad del agua), abundancia de especies no nativas, la estacin del ao, y la distancia del ro Bravo. Los anlisis indicaron que la distancia del ro Bravo, la profundidad mxima, y la composicin del sustrato fueron los indicadores ms importantes para la abundancia y la presencia de las especies focales en la regin.
24643656|Based on cross-dated increment cores, yearly diameters of trees were reconstructed for 21 laurels (Cordia alliodora) growing in a natural secondary forest on Gigante Peninsula, Panama. From this sample of dominant-codominant trees, ages were 1435 years with an average of 25 years. Growth typically slowed at 7 years old, indicating effects of competition from closure of gaps in the canopy. Rate of growth in diameter was modeled using the Bertalanffy-Richards growth function. Four patterns of growth were detected, of which 57% were sigmoidal, 19% were convex, 10% were monomolecular, and 14% were inverse sigmoid. Con base de testigos fechados de madera, dimetros anuales se reconstructaron para 21 rboles de laurel (Cordia alliodora) creciendo en un bosque natural secundario en la Peninsula Gigante, Panama. De esta muestra de arboles dominantes-codominantes, los edades varan de 14 a 35 aos con un promedio de 25 aos. Tpicamente el crecimiento de los rboles disminu a siete aos de edad, sealando los efectos de competencia debido de la cierre de los claros en el dosel. La tasa de crecimiento diamtrico de los rboles se model usando la function de crecimiento Bertalanffy-Richards. Cuatro patrones de crecimiento se encontraron; 57 por ciento de los patrones eran sigmoideos, 19 por ciento eran convexos, 10 por ciento eran monomoleculares, y 14 por ciento eran sigmoideos inversos.
24643657|We studied the ground and canopy spiders in two pecan (Carya illinoinensis (Wangenh.) K. Koch) orchards located in central Texas, using pitfall traps and corrugated-cardboard-refuge traps in the canopies of trees. We identified 162 species, distributed in 26 families. The community of spiders in these two orchards represented ca. 15% of the species and ca. 50% of the families previously reported for Texas. The spider Camillina pulchra (Keyserling) was a new state record and was collected at both sites. In this study, 51 species were new records for Comanche County and 84 were new records for Robertson County. Spiders in this agroecosystem were abundant, and several species predominantly occurred either on the ground or in the canopy at both locations. We suggest that the consumptive presence of spiders in space and time indicates they constitute the principal natural enemies that contribute to maintaining endemic conditions (density levels <0.1 of the carrying capacity for affected organisms) among arthropods in this, and perhaps other, terrestrial ecosystems throughout the year. Investigamos las araas terrestres y del dosel en dos cultivos del nogal (Carya illinoinensis (Wangenh.) K. Koch) ubicados en el centro de Texas usando trampas de cada en el suelo y trampas de refugios en el dosel construidas de cartn corrugado. Identificamos 162 especies, distribuidas en 26 familias. La comunidad de araas en estos dos cultivos represent ca. 15% de las especies y ca. 50% de las familias previamente reportadas para Texas. La araa Camillina pulchra (Keyserling) fue un nuevo registro para Texas y fue colectada en los dos sitios. En este estudio, 51 especies fueron registradas por primera vez para el condado de Comanche y 84 para el condado de Robertson. Las araas en este agroecosistema fueron abundantes, y varias especies se encontraron predominantemente o en el suelo o en el dosel en las dos localidades. Sugerimos que la presencia consuntiva de araas en el espacio y el tiempo indica que estas constituyen el enemigo principal natural que contribuye a mantener a las condiciones endmicas (densidades <0.1 de la capacidad de carga de organismos afectados) entre artrpodos en este, y quizs otros, ecosistemas terrestres durante el ao.
24643658|We assessed the effects of the abundance and biomass of four exotic fishes (common carp, Cyprinus carpio; guppy, Poecilia reticulata; green swordtail, Xiphophorus hellerii; and redbelly tilapia, Tilapia cf. zillii) on the residual somatic condition (Kr) of endangered Baja California killifish (Fundulus lima) in two oasis systems of Baja California Sur, Mexico. We used multiple regressions to analyze relationships between Kr of the killifish and 21 ecological variables. Biomass of redbelly tilapia and common carp were variables that better explained variation in Kr among populations of killifish. In both drainages, redbelly tilapia was the dominant fish, which relegated smaller habitat units to the other coexisting species of fishes, increasing competition among them and decreasing Kr and abundance of the endemic killifish. We concluded that Kr for populations of killifish may be a good indicator of the competitive interactions with exotic fishes in drainages of Baja California peninsula and should be considered when such stocks are subject to recovery plans or any other management program. Evaluamos los efectos de la abundancia y biomasa de cuatro especies cticas exticas (carpa comn, Cyprinus carpio; gupi, Poecilia reticulata; espadita verde, Xiphophorus hellerii; y la tilapia panza roja, Tilapia cf. zillii) sobre la condicin somtica residual (Kr) de la sardinilla peninsular en peligro de extincin (Fundulus lima) en dos sistemas de oasis de Baja California Sur, Mxico. Utilizamos regresiones mltiples para analizar las relaciones entre el Kr de la sardinilla peninsular y 21 variables ecolgicas, siendo las biomasas de la tilapia panza roja y la carpa comn las variables que mejor explicaron la variacin de Kr para las poblaciones de sardinilla peninsular. La tilapia panza roja fue la especie dominante en ambas cuencas, relegando a las otras especies cticas coexistentes a ocupar unidades de hbitat ms pequeas, incrementando una mayor competencia entre ellas y reduciendo el Kr y la abundancia de la sardinilla peninsular. Concluimos que el Kr de las poblaciones de sardinilla peninsular puede ser un buen indicador de las interacciones competitivas con especies exticas en las cuencas hidrolgicas de la pennsula de Baja California y podra ser considerado cuando tales poblaciones estn sujetas a planes de recuperacin o cualquier otro programa de manejo.
24643659|Sexual dimorphism is common in many clades of reptiles. The Texas alligator lizard (Gerrhonotus infernalis) is a lizard distributed in North America, from Texas in the southern United States to the state of San Luis Potos in central Mexico. Very little data exist on the presence of sexual dimorphism and on the ecology of this species, particularly in Mexico. We document sexual dimorphism in a population of Gerrhonotus infernalis at Parque Ecolgico Chipinque, Monterrey, Nuevo Len, Mexico. We evaluated 12 morphological and one meristic character on 102 specimens. There were significant differences in the dimensions of the head and body, showing that there is sexual dimorphism in G. infernalis. Males showed positive allometry in cranial dimensions, while females showed isometric growth. Males had more bite marks, suggesting agonistic behavior in this species. This population of G. infernalis presents sexual dimorphism in body size and dimensions of the head, and this is likely a consequence of intrasexual selection. El dimorfismo sexual es comn en varios clados de reptiles. El falso escorpin (Gerrhonotus infernalis) es una lagartija que se distribuye en el norte de Amrica, desde Texas en el sur de Estados Unidos de Amrica, hasta el estado de San Luis Potos en el centro de Mxico. Existe poca informacin sobre el dimorfismo sexual y la ecologa de esta especie, particularmente en Mxico. Documentamos el dimorfismo sexual en una poblacin de Gerrhonotus infernalis en el Parque Ecolgico Chipinque, Monterrey, Nuevo Len, Mexico. Evaluamos 12 caractersticas morfolgicas y una merstica en 102 especmenes. Hubo diferencias significativas en las dimensiones de la cabeza y del cuerpo, evidenciando la existencia de dimorfismo sexual en G. infernalis. El patrn de crecimiento fue alomtricamente positivo en los machos e isomtrico en las hembras. En los machos se registr un nmero mayor de marcas de mordidas, sugiriendo que existe conducta agonista en esta especie. Existe dimorfismo sexual en el tamao del cuerpo y las dimensiones de la cabeza de G. infernalis en la poblacin estudiada y probablemente dicho dimorfismo es consecuencia de la seleccin intrasexual.
24643660|We compared types and volume of prey in the diets of two whiptail lizards (Teiidae), Aspidoscelis marmorata (a bisexual species) and A. tesselata (a unisexual species) that occur syntopically in a Chihuahuan Desert landscape on Indio Mountains Research Station, Hudspeth County, Texas. Because their home ranges overlap extensively, we hypothesized that there would be dietary resource partitioning between the two species. Stomach contents of 69 A. marmorata and 21 A. tesselata included only arthropods. Aspidoscelis marmorata used 14 orders of arthropods for prey, while A. tesselata used eight orders. Isopterans (termites) were the principal food for both species by count (93.5 and 83.8% in male and female A. marmorata, respectively; 94.6% in A. tesselata). By volume, Homoptera (37.8 and 10.3%), Araneae (11.9 and 54.1%), Orthoptera (18.0 and 0.9%), and Isoptera (16.6 and 3.6%) composed 84.3 and 68.9% of the diet of male and female A. marmorata, respectively; whereas Orthoptera (29.8%), Homoptera (29.7%), Araneae (16.6%), and Isoptera (16.2%) were 92.3% of the diet of A. tesselata. The hypothesis that syntopic A. tesselata and A. marmorata were partitioning food resources on the study area was not supported; both species are opportunistic feeders that consume similar food types. Comparamos el tipo y volumen de presas en la dieta de dos lagartijas de la familia Teiidae, Aspidoscelis marmorata (bisexual) y A. tesselata (unisexual), que ocurren sintpicamente en la Estacin de Investigacin, Indio Mountains Research Station, en el condado de Hudspeth, Texas, localizada en el desierto chihuahuense. Se asumi una reparticin de recursos en la dieta de las dos especias debido a que sus rangos de hogar se sobreponen ampliamente. Los contenidos estomacales de 69 A. marmorata y 21 de A. tesselata incluyeron solamente artrpodos. Las presas consumidas por A. marmorata pertenecieron a 14 rdenes, mientras que las presas de A. tesselata pertenecieron a 8 rdenes. Por conteo, ambas especies consumieron ispteros (termitas) principalmente (93.5% y 83.7% en machos y hembras de A. marmorata, respectivamente; 94.6% en A. tesselata). Por volumen, Homoptera (37.8% y 10.3%), Araneae (11.9% y 54.1%), Orthoptera (18.0% y 0.9%), e Isoptera (16.6% y 3.6%) formaron el 84.3% y 68.9% de la dieta de machos y hembras de A. marmorata, respectivamente; mientras que Orthoptera (29.8%), Homoptera (29.7%), Araneae (16.6%), e Isoptera (16.2%) formaron el 92.3% de la dieta de A. tesselata. Los resultados contradicen la hiptesis indicando que las dos especies sintpicas no se reparten los recursos alimentarios; ambas especies son oportunistas que consumen presas similares.
24643661|Bahia de Chetumal, on the Caribbean coast of the Yucatan Peninsula, is a large mesohaline bay that receives significant runoff of fresh water and supports salt-tolerant macrophytes and seagrasses. This bay is important for the endangered Antillean manatees (Trichechus manatus) in Mexico, and the maintenance of submerged populations of macrophytes is a priority in the conservation plans for manatees because these plants play an important role in the habitat of the manatee. We surveyed the cover and biomass of aquatic macrophytes in the northern section of Baha de Chetumal from November 1998April 2000 and found them restricted to a small proportion of the area with Halodule wrightii and Ruppia maritima being the most frequent species. Less common species were Najas marina, Thalassia testudinum, and the algae Batophora oerstedii and Chara chara. Cover (<50%), biomass (38.683.0 g of dry weight m2 and 22.432.4 g dry weight m2 in denser stands of H. wrightii and R. maritima, respectively), and leaf length (maximum length near 4 cm) were lower than that reported for nearby coastal areas. Above-ground:below-ground biomass ratio was <1 in H. wrightii and R. maritima. The community of submerged aquatic macrophytes of the northern Baha de Chetumal differs from other such communities in the region, and this might be caused by turbidity, low salinity, and herbivory by manatees. Given the low cover and density of submerged aquatic macrophytes, they should be conserved and monitored continuously to aid in the long-term conservation of manatees. La baha de Chetumal, en la costa caribe de la pennsula de Yucatn, es una extensa baha mesohalina que recibe escurrimientos significativos de agua dulce y que alberga a macrofitas tolerantes a la salinidad y a pastos marinos. Esta baha es un rea importante para el manat antillano (Trichechus manatus) en Mxico, una especie en peligro de extincin. El mantenimiento de las poblaciones de macrofitas sumergidas es prioritario en los planes de conservacin del manat porque estas plantas juegan un papel importante en su hbitat. Muestreamos la cobertura y biomasa de macrofitas acuticas en la seccin norte de la baha de Chetumal desde noviembre de 1998 hasta abril de 2000. Encontramos que stas fueron restringidas a una porcin reducida del rea y que Halodule wrightii y Ruppia maritima fueron las dos especies ms frecuentes. Las especies menos comunes fueron Najas marina, Thalassia testudinum y las algas Batophora oerstedii y Chara chara. La cobertura (<50%), biomasa (38.683.0 g de peso seco m2 y 22.432.4 g de peso seco m2 en las parcelas ms densas de H. wrightii y R. martima, respectivamente), y el largo de la hoja (cerca de 4 cm de longitud mxima) fueron menores que los reportados para zonas costeras cercanas. La proporcin de biomasa arriba:debajo la tierra fue <1 en H. wrightii and R. maritima. La comunidad de macrofitas acuticas sumergidas en el norte de la baha de Chetumal es diferente de otras comunidades parecidas de la regin, y eso puede deberse a la turbidez, baja salinidad y la herbivora por manates. Dados la baja cobertura y densidad de estas macrofitas acuticas sumergidas, estas se deben de conservar y monitorear constantemente para ayudar en la conservacin a largo plazo de los manates.
24643662|In 2005, fire ignited by humans swept from Yuma Proving Grounds into Kofa National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona, burning ca. 9,255 ha of Wilderness Area. Fuels were predominantly the native forb Plantago ovata. Large fires at low elevations were rare in the 19th and 20th centuries, and fires fueled by native vegetation are undocumented in the southwestern deserts. We estimated the area damaged by fire using Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer and Normalized Difference Vegetation Index, which are more accurate and reduce subjectivity of aerial surveys of perimeters of fires. Assemblages of upland and xeroriparian plants lost 91 and 81% of live cover, respectively, in fires. The trees Olneya tesota and Cercidium had high amounts of top-kill. King Valley was an important xeroriparian corridor for birds. Species richness of birds decreased significantly following the fire. Numbers of breeding birds were lower in burned areas of King Valley 3 years post-fire, compared to numbers in nearby but unburned Alamo Wash. Although birds function within a large geographic scale, the extent of this burn still influenced the relative abundance of local species of breeding birds. This suggests that breeding birds respond to conditions of localized burns and slow recovery of vegetation contributes to continued lower numbers of birds in the burned sites in King Valley. En el 2005, un fuego a causa humana arras desde Yuma Proving Grounds hasta el Kofa National Wildlife Refuge en el estado de Arizona, EEUU, quemando ca. 9255 hectreas de un rea silvestre. Los combustibles fueron predominantemente la hierba nativa Plantago ovata. Incendios grandes a elevacin baja, fueron raros en los siglos diecinueve y veinte, e incendios a causa de vegetacin nativa son sin precedentes de los desiertos del suroeste de los Estados Unidos. Usando un Espectroradimetro de Imgenes de Resolucin Moderada y el ndice de Vegetacin de Diferencia Normalizada, se calcul el rea daada por el fuego con ms precisin y menos subjetividad de los permetros del incendio por medio de muestreos areos. Ensamblajes de plantas en ecosistemas de tierra alta y de ecosistemas xeroriparios perdieron el 91% y el 81% de cobertura viva, respectivamente. Los rboles Olneya tesota y Cercidium tuvieron mucha muerte de las partes superiores. El King Valley era un corredor xeroripario muy importante para las aves. La riqueza de especies de aves reproducindose disminuy significativamente tras el incendio. Nmeros de aves reproducindose fueron inferiores en las reas quemadas hasta despus de tres aos en el King Valley, en comparacin con los nmeros en Alamo Wash, un rea cercana no quemada. Reconociendo la gran escala geogrfica dentro de la cual aves habitan, el alcance de este incendio an tuvo influencia en la abundancia relativa de especies de aves locales que se reproducen all. Esto sugiere que aves reproducindose responden a las condiciones de zonas quemadas locales y la lenta recuperacin vegetal contribuye a los continuos nmeros bajos de aves en los sitios quemados de King Valley.
24643663|The Pecos gambusia (Gambusia nobilis) and the Comanche Springs pupfish (Cyprinodon elegans) are federally listed as endangered, and they inhabit Phantom Lake Spring, the headwaters of the Balmorhea Springs Complex in western Texas. We censused both species to update their current status within Phantom Lake Spring, and we sought to determine whether the introduced largespring gambusia (G. geiseri) or any G. nobilis-G. geiseri hybrids were present in the spring. La gambusia de Pecos (Gambusia nobilis) y el cachorrito del manantial Comanche (Cyprinodon elegans) son enlistados por el gobierno federal como en peligro de extincin. Estas especies habitan el manantial Phantom Lake, el cual es la cabecera del complejo de Balmorhea Springs en el oeste de Texas. Muestreamos ambas especies para actualizar su estado vigente en el manantial Phantom Lake y buscamos la presencia de la introducida G. geiseri) o cualquier G. nobilis-G. geiseri hbrido en el manantial.
24643664|Several species of Pterygoplichthys (Siluriformes: Loricariidae) have been introduced around the world and are now invasive outside of their native range. In southern Mexico, Pterygoplichthys is quickly spreading and has become one of the dominant groups of fishes in many freshwater ecosystems. We describe the density and physical characteristics of large nesting burrows constructed in riverbanks and wetlands by nonnative Pterygoplichthys. Our study was conducted in the floodplains of the Chacamax River, one of the principal tributaries of the Usumacinta-Grijalva watershed. Burrows ranged from 30140 cm in depth, 934 cm in width, and 426 cm in height. We counted an average of 1,573 burrows/km of waterway in a 14-km survey of the banks of the Chacamax River. Loricariids preferred to nest in banks with steep slopes, clay soils, and low coverage by roots. Varias especies introducidas de Pterygoplichthys (Siluriformes: Loricariidae) estn establecidas mundialmente como poblaciones invasoras fuera de su distribucin geogrfica original. En el sur de Mxico el gnero Pterygoplichthys est invadiendo muchos sistemas dulceacucolas de tal forma que actualmente es uno de los grupos dominantes de peces. Describimos la densidad y las caractersticas fsicas de grandes madrigueras de anidacin construidas en los taludes y las llanuras de inundacin por Pterygoplichthys no nativo. Hicimos nuestro estudio en las llanuras de inundacin del ro Chacamax, uno de los principales afluentes de la cuenca del Usumacinta-Grijalva. Las dimensiones de las madrigueras fueron de 30140 cm de profundidad, 934 cm de ancho y 426 cm de altura. Contamos un promedio de 1,573 madrigueras/km en un transecto de 14 km de los taludes a lo largo del rio Chacamax. Los loricridos prefirieron anidar en riberas con pendientes pronunciadas y en suelos arcillosos con poca cobertura de races.
24643665|We report a discovery of black bears (Ursus americanus) consuming seeds of southwestern white pine (Pinus strobiformis) on north slopes of the San Francisco Peaks near Flagstaff, Arizona, in high-elevation, mixed-species conifer forest. In one instance, a bear had obtained seeds from cones excavated from a larder horde made by a red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus). Consumption of seeds of southwestern white pine by bears had not been previously documented. This discovery adds to the number of species of pine used by bears for food as well as the geographic range within which the behavior occurs. Presentamos el descubrimiento de osos negros (Ursus americanus) consumiendo las semillas de pino blanco (Pinus strobiformis) en las laderas norte del cerro San Francisco cerca de Flagstaff, Arizona, en los bosques de alta elevacin de conferas mixtas. En un caso, un oso obtuvo las semillas de los conos excavados de una despensa de la ardilla roja (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus). El consumo de semillas del pino blanco por los osos no se haba documentado previamente. Este descubrimiento aumenta el nmero de especies de pino utilizadas por los osos para alimentacin, as como el rango geogrfico en el que ese comportamiento se encuentra.
24643666|We analyzed mammalian prey from owl pellets recovered at a winter roost of long-eared owls (Asio otus) in northwestern Irion County, Texas. Of 1,232 prey identified, the most common species were cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus, 36%), plains harvest mice (Reithrodontomys montanus, 23%), deer mice (unidentified Peromyscus, 14%), and pygmy mice (Baiomys taylori, 10%). Approximately 80% of the biomass of the diet was the cotton rat. Other important prey were Crawford's gray shrews (Notiosorex crawfordi, 7%), hispid pocket mice (Chaetodipus hispidus, 6%), and Merriam's pocket mice (Perognathus merriami, 2%). These species are rare in the reported diet of long-eared owls and represent the first information on winter food habits in Texas in the southern portion of the range of this owl. Analizamos los restos de mamferos en egagrpilas recuperadas en un refugio invernal de bhos orejudos (Asio otus) en el noroeste del condado de Irion, Texas. De las 1,232 presas identificadas, las especies ms comunes fueron las ratas de algodn (Sigmodon hispidus, 36%), ratones de llanos (Reithrodontomys montanus, 23%), ratones ciervo (Peromyscus no identificada, 14%) y ratones pigmeos norteos (Baiomys taylori, 10%). Aproximadamente el 80% de la biomasa de la dieta fue de la rata de algodn. Otras especies de presas importantes fueron la musaraa gris (Notiosorex crawfordi, 7%), el ratn de abazones crespo (Chaetodipus hispidus, 6%) y el ratn de Merriam (Perognathus merriami, 2%). Estas especies son raras en la dieta registrada de bhos orejudos y representan la primera cita de hbitos de invierno en Texas al sur de la distribucin de este bho.
24643667|A recent survey of the San Saba River in San Saba County, Texas, has yielded the first record in >30 years of a very recently deceased individual (i.e., with tissue present within the shell) of the unionid mussel Quadrula mitchelli (false spike). This very recently dead individual suggests that living populations of Q. mitchelli might still exist in the San Saba River. Our results provide evidence that surveys in remote areas may help to locate populations of rare species of unionid mussels. Un muestreo recin del ro San Saba en el condado de San Saba, Texas, ha dado el primer registro en >30 aos de un individuo de mejilln unionido Quadrula mitchelli recientemente fallecido (es decir, con el tejido an presente dentro de la concha). El encuentro sugiere que an podran existir ms poblaciones actuales de Q. mitchelli dentro del ro San Saba. Nuestros resultados rinden evidencia que muestreos realizados dentro de reas remotas podran ayudar a localizar poblaciones de especies raras del mejilln unionido.
24643668|During July 2011, collections of several freshwater horsehair worms were made at two sites (Mud and Salt creeks) in McCurtain County, Oklahoma. The specimens were subsequently identified as Paragordius varius (Leidy, 1851), which represents a new nematomorph for the state. The only previously reported horsehair worm from Oklahoma is Gordius robustus Leidy, 1851, from Stillwater, Payne County. Paragordius varius is probably the most common and widespread gordiid species in the New World. It is now known from 25 (plus the District of Columbia) of the contiguous United States and three provinces of Canada and also has been reported from Hawaii and throughout South America. Collecting at several other sites in the eastern part of the state failed to recover additional P. varius. Durante julio del 2011, colecciones de varios gusanos crin de caballo se realizaron en dos sitios (Mud y Salt Creeks) en el condado de McCurtain, Oklahoma. Los especmenes fueron identificados despus como Paragordius varius (Leidy, 1851), lo que representa un nuevo nematomorfo para el estado. El nico gusano crin de caballo anteriormente registrado de Oklahoma es Gordius robustus Leidy, 1851, de Stillwater, condado de Payne. Paragordius varius es probablemente la especie gordida ms comn y ampliamente distribuida en el Nuevo Mundo. Actualmente se conoce en 25 estados (ms el Distrito de Columbia) de los Estados Unidos contiguos y tres provincias de Canad y tambin se ha registrado de Hawaii y en toda Amrica del Sur. Buscar en varios otros sitios en la parte oriental de Oklahoma no logr encontrar especmenes adicionales de P. varius.
24643669|We report the first record of the parasitic pentastomid Porocephalus crotali in the Yucatan neotropical rattlesnake, Crotalus tzabcan, from the Yucatan Peninsula. The species of parasite was described from three males and five females collected from the lungs of a female rattlesnake killed on Km 260.5 Escarcega-Chetumal highway in January 2007. The parasites harbored similar morphometric values, a mouth as a keyhole situated in the inner hook line, simple internal hooks, and double external hooks, which are consistent with features reported in the original description of P. crotali. The occurrence of P. crotali in the Yucatan neotropical rattlesnake represents new geographical and host records for this species. Porocephalus crotali is one of six species of the genus described from the Americas and is apparently the most widely distributed pentastomid infecting snakes. Moreover, this is the fifth record of a porocephalid pentastomid in Mexican snakes. We discussed the zoonotic implications of pentastomes. Reportamos el primer registro del parsito pentastmido Porocephalus crotali en la serpiente de cascabel de Yucatn, Crotalus tzabcan, en la Pennsula de Yucatn. La especie de parsito fue descrita a partir de tres machos y cinco hembras colectadas de los pulmones de una hembra muerta por atropellamiento en el km. 260.5 de la carretera Escrcega-Chetumal, en enero de 2007. Los parsitos presentaron medidas morfomtricas similares, una boca en forma de cerradura situada en la lnea interna de los ganchos, ganchos internos simples, y ganchos externos dobles consistentes con las caractersticas reportadas en la descripcin original de P. crotali. La presencia de P. crotali en la serpiente de cascabel de Yucatn representa un nuevo registro geogrfico y de hospedero para esta especie. Porocephalus crotali es una de las seis especies del gnero descritas en Amrica, y aparentemente es el pentastmido ms ampliamente distribuido entre las serpientes. Adems, representa el quinto registro de un pentastmido poroceflido en serpientes mexicanas. Discutimos las implicaciones zoonticas de los pentastmidos.
24643670|We observed behavior consistent with nest-guarding in Agassiz's desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) at two nests in a large wind-energy-generation facility near Palm Springs, California, locally known as the Mesa Wind Farm. As researchers approached the nests, female desert tortoises moved to the entrance of their burrows and positioned themselves sideways, directly over their nests. One female stretched her limbs outward and wedged herself into the burrow (her plastron directly above the nest). Guarding of nests is rarely observed in Agassiz's desert tortoise but can occur as a result of attempted predation on eggs by Gila monsters (Heloderma suspectum) or in direct response to the perceived threat posed by researchers. This is the first report of nest-guarding for G. agassizii in the Sonoran Desert ecosystem of California. Observamos el comportamiento de las tortugas del desierto (Gopherus agasiizii) que parece vigilar a sus nidos. Observamos este comportamiento en dos nidos que estuvieron ubicados en las instalaciones para la generacin de energa elica, cerca de Palm Springs, California, conocida localmente como Mesa Wind Farm. Cuando los investigadores se acercaron a los nidos, las tortugas hembras se desplazaron hacia la entrada de su madriguera y se posicionaron a los lados directamente sobre sus nidos. Una hembra estir sus extremidades hacia fuera asegurndose ella misma dentro de la madriguera (dejando el plastrn directamente encima del nido). Es muy raro observar la vigilancia de nidos en las tortugas del desierto, pero puede ocurrir como resultado de intentos de depredacin de huevos por el monstruo de Gila (Heloderma suspectum) o como respuesta directa al percibir a los investigadores como una amenaza. Este es el primer reporte del comportamiento de vigilancia de nidos de la tortuga G. agassizzi en California en el ecosistema del desierto de Sonora.
24643671|We studied competition between the federally endangered Tipton kangaroo rat (Dipodomys nitratoides nitratoides) and the larger Heermann's kangaroo rat (D. heermanni) at a site in the San Joaquin Valley, California, where D. n. nitratoides had been translocated 4 years earlier. We found that five D. heermanni had smaller home ranges than did four D. n. nitratoides inside a fenced area of exclusion. Behavioral observations suggested that D. n. nitratoides avoided D. heermanni. After we removed D. heermanni from the area of exclusion, numbers of D. n. nitratoides increased 500% in 12 months, whereas numbers at a control site with D. heermanni were low and trending downward. We suggest that if translocations continue to be used to conserve D. n. nitratoides, it may be important to limit numbers of D. heermanni until D. n. nitratoides are well established. Estudiamos la competencia entre la rata canguro de Tipton (Dipodomys nitratoides nitratoides), amenazada al nivel nacional, y la ms grande rata canguro de Heermann (D. heermanni) en un sitio en el valle de San Joaqun, California, donde D. n. nitratoides haba sido trasladado hace cuatro aos. Encontramos que cinco D. heermanni tuvieron rangos de hogar ms pequeos que los de cuatro D. n. nitratoides dentro de un rea cercada de exclusin. Observaciones sobre el comportamiento mostraron que D. n. nitratoides evit a D. heermanni. Despus de sacar D. heermanni de la exclusin, los nmeros de D. n. nitratoides incrementaron en un 500% en 12 meses, mientras que los nmeros en un sitio control con D. heermanni fueron bajos y tendiendo a disminuir. Sugerimos que si siguen las translocaciones para conservar D. n. nitratoides, puede ser importante limitar los nmeros de D. heermanni hasta que D. n. nitratoides est bien establecida.
24643672|In May 2010, we documented the presence of jaguars (Panthera onca) in the state of Michoacn, Mexico, by means of six photographs obtained with camera traps and a skull collected in the field. The photographs show an adult female and a subadult cub. These records were from tropical semi-deciduous forest in a transitional area between the Sierra Madre del Sur and the Pacific Coast. These records constitute the first evidence of the jaguar in Michoacn. Additional research is needed to confirm whether the records correspond to a resident population of jaguar rather than to wandering individuals. En mayo del 2010, documentamos la presencia de jaguares (Panthera onca) en el estado de Michoacn, Mxico, a travs de seis fotografas obtenidas con trampas cmara y un crneo encontrado en el campo. Las fotografas ensean a una hembra adulta y una cra subadulta. Estos registros se encontraron del bosque tropical subcaducifolio en una zona transicional entre la Sierra Madre del Sur y costa del Pacfico. Estos registros constituyen la primera evidencia del jaguar en Michoacn. Se requiere investigacin adicional para confirmar si los registros corresponden a una poblacin de jaguares residentes o a individuos errantes.
24643673|Recent studies of mussels have documented a gradient of extirpation that extends from Toledo Bend Dam to United States Highway 190 in the lower Sabine River. A similar pattern has been documented for the diversity and abundance of cyprinids. To evaluate whether impacts of the project have extended into nearby tributaries, we assessed the distribution and abundance of threatened species of mussels in Anacoco and Toro bayous, within Vernon and Sabine parishes, respectively. In total, 1,474 live mussels representing 15 species were collected during our survey. Of these, four are considered state-threatened: Fusconaia askewi (Texas pigtoe), Lampsilis satura (sandbank pocketbook), Obovaria jacksoniana (southern hickorynut), and Pleurobema riddellii (Louisiana pigtoe). In general, L. satura, O. jacksoniana, and P. riddellii appear to be rare in Anacoco Bayou and absent from Toro Bayou, whereas F. askewi is more abundant and widely distributed. Effects of backwater related to releases from impoundments, discharge from paper mills, and use of land within the watershed appear to be plausible factors contributing to the constrained distribution of freshwater mussels throughout both bayous. Estudios recientes de mejillones han documentado un gradiente de extirpacin que se extiende desde Toledo Bend Dam hasta la Highway 190 en Estados Unidos en el bajo ro Sabine. Un patrn similar ha sido documentado para la diversidad y abundancia de ciprnidos. Para evaluar si los impactos del proyecto se han extendido en las inmediaciones afluentes, evaluamos la distribucin y abundancia de especies de mejillones amenazados en los pantanos Anacoco y Toro, dentro de los distritos Vernon y Sabine, respectivamente. Durante nuestro muestreo, se colectaron 1,474 mejillones vivos, representando 15 diferentes especies. De ellas, cuatro son clasificadas como amenazadas por el estado de Texas: Fusconaia askewi, Lampsilis satura, Obovaria jacksoniana, y Pleurobema riddellii. Por lo general, L. satura, O. jacksoniana y P. riddellii parecen ser raras dentro del pantano Anacoco y ausentes dentro del pantano Toro, mientras que F. askewi es ms abundante y ampliamente distribuida. Efectos de remanso relacionado a la liberacin de agua de embalses, descargo de agua por fbricas de papel, y uso de la tierra dentro de la cuenca parecen ser posibles factores que contribuyen a la limitada distribucin de mejillones de agua dulce dentro de los dos pantanos.
24643683|Vigilance for predators is omnipresent among species of prey. We report an investigation of vigilance of white-tailed prairie dogs (Sciuridae: Cynomys leucurus) living under natural conditions. Our most important conclusion concerns variation in vigilance within and among uniquely marked adult individuals (n = 53 in 2007, n = 62 in 2008). Within a single day, the percentage of observations when an individual was scanning for predators ranged from 0100%, with a mean of 24.4%. Over a period of 3 months, some individuals were vigilant for <5% of observations, but others were vigilant for >50% of observations. For 12 of 24 individuals that we monitored for vigilance in consecutive years, levels of vigilance were significantly different between years. Some of the variation within and between individuals might have resulted from differences in vulnerability to predation. Las especies de presa constantemente se mantienen vigilantes en contra de los depredadores. Presentamos una investigacin sobre la vigilancia de los perros llaneros de cola blanca (Sciuridae: Cynomys leucurus) que viven en condiciones naturales. Nuestra conclusin ms importante se refiere a la variacin en la vigilancia dentro y entre los individuos adultos marcados nicamente (n = 53 en el 2007, n = 62 en 2008). En un solo da, el porcentaje de observaciones cuando un individuo estuvo escaneado por depredadores variaron de 0100%, con una media de 24.4%. Durante un perodo de 3 meses, algunos individuos se mantuvieron alerta <5% de las observaciones, pero otros estaban atentos a >50% de las observaciones. En 12 de 24 individuos a los que se ha monitoreado la vigilancia en aos consecutivos, los niveles de vigilancia fueron significativamente differentes entre aos. Parte de la variacin dentro y entre los individuos podra ser el resultado de differencias en la vulnerabilidad a la depredacin.
24643684|Little is known about the structure of riparian communities within the central Gulf coast of Texas. We present a phytosociological description of the riparian corridor within two contiguous sites along the Mission River in Refugio County, Texas, that differ in respect to tidal influence along the river, and compare this woody riparian community to others in Texas. In summer 2009 and 2010, we established 33 transects perpendicular to the river after reviewing digital data from ArcMap 9.3.1 on elevation, edaphic characteristics, uses of land, and cover of land and wetland. We included sites above and below the tidal zone to ensure that the diversity of the community was documented. Transects traversed the edge of the river, ridge and swale topography, and up to the transitional zone between the riparian zone and upland habitat. We sampled a total of 137 plots and documented all species of trees, shrubs, and vines with diameter at breast height 3 cm. The important species were Ulmus crassifolia, Celtis laevigata, Ehretia anacua, vitis mustangensis, Acer negundo, Carya illinoinensis, Fraxinus berlandieriana, and Quercus virginiana. Riparian vegetation was restricted to particular zones within the Mission River floodplain. Elevation and river flow were identified as the environmental determinants that influenced the distributional pattern of colonizing species and species of middle or late stages of succession within riparian zones. Species with the greatest importance values in this study were compared to those in other studies of the riparian vegetation in Texas using Bray-Curtis similarity indices. In general, riparian vegetation from the sites grouped within ecoregions. The riparian vegetation in the Mission River was most similar to the nearby Aransas River, and both are in the Gulf Coast Prairies and Marshes ecoregion. Muy poco se sabe sobre la estructura de las comunidades riparias dentro de la costa central del golfo en Texas. Presentamos una descripcin fitosociolgica del margen ripario dentro de dos sitios contiguos del ro Mission en el condado de Refugio, Texas. Los dos sitios difirieron con respeto a la influencia de la marea. Comparamos la comunidad riparia leosa de estos sitios con otros en Texas. En el verano de 2009 y 2010, establecimos 33 transectos perpendiculares al ro despus de revisar datos digitales de ArcMap 9.3.1 de elevacin, caractersticas edficas, uso de la tierra y cubierta de tierra y de humedales. Incluimos sitios agua arriba y agua abajo de la zona mareal para asegurar que la diversidad de la comunidad fue documentada. Los transectos atravesaron el borde del ro, la zona de subidas y bajadas, y hasta la zona de transicin de la zona riparia y tierra alta. Muestramos 137 parcelas en total y documentamos todas las especies arbreas, arbustos, y trepadoras con el dimetro a la altura del pecho (dbh) 3 cm. Las especies importantes fueron Ulmus crassifolia, Celtis laevigata, Ehretia anacua, Vitis mustangensis, Acer negundo, Carya illinoinensis, Fraxinus berlandieriana, y Quercus virginiana. La vegetacin riparia fue restringida a zonas particulares en el plano inundable del ro Mission. La elevacin y flujo de ro fueron identificados como factores ambientales determinantes en el patrn distribucional de las especies colonizadoras y las de etapas de sucesin medias o tardas en la zona riparia. Las especies con valores de importancia mayores en este estudio fueron comparadas a otras en estudios de vegetacin riparia en Texas utilizando ndices de similitud de Bray-Curtis. En general, la vegetacin riparia de los sitios se agrup de acuerdo a ecoregiones. La vegetacin riparia en el ro Mission fue ms similar al prximo ro Aransas y ambos pertenecen a la ecoregin de Gulf Coast Prairies and Marshes.
24643685|The present study evaluated the regeneration of woody species in four abandoned areas with different land-history tenure (extensive production of livestock, intensive production of livestock, agriculture, and clearcutting) in the Tamaulipan thornscrub in northeastern Mexico. These areas regenerated naturally over a period of 21 years (19842005). These areas regenerated naturally over a period of 21 years (19842005). Four 250-m2 plots, each 10  25 m, were established in each area for sampling. At each plot, abundance, dominance, mean height of the tallest individuals, species richness, and diversity of the woody species were evaluated. To detect significant differences among the four areas, an analysis of variance (P < 0.05) was used to compare averages of the variables height, abundance, dominance, species richness, and diversity. The analysis of variance showed significant differences for all variables, except height (P > 0.05). The area of intensive production of livestock showed the lowest values for abundance (1,760  704 N/ha), dominance (6.8 m2/ha), and species richness (11). In contrast, the area of extensive production of livestock showed the greatest abundance (16,983  3,429 N/ha), dominance (26.1  3.4 m2/ha), and species richness (19). La presente investigacin evalo la regeneracin de las especies leosas en cuatro reas abandonadas con distinto historial de uso silvoagropecuario (ganadera extensiva, ganadera intensiva, agricultura tradicional y matarrasa) en el matorral espinoso tamaulipeco del noreste de Mxico, las cuales regeneraron naturalmente durante un periodo de 21 aos (19842005). En cada rea se establecieron 4 sitios de muestro de 250 m2 (10  25 m). En los sitios de muestreo se evaluaron la abundancia, dominancia, altura media de los individuos ms altos, riqueza de especies y diversidad de las especies leosas. Para evaluar diferencias significativas entre las cuatro reas, usamos un anlisis de varianza (P < 0.05) para comparar los valores promedio de las variables altura, abundancia, dominancia, riqueza de especies y diversidad. El anlisis de varianza mostr diferencias significativas para todas las variables a excepcin de la altura (P < 0.05). El rea de ganadera intensiva mostr los valores ms bajos de la abundancia (1,760  704 N/ha), dominancia (6.8 m2/ha) y riqueza de especies (11). En contraste, el rea de ganadera extensiva mostr la mayor abundancia (16,983  3,429 N/ha), dominancia (26.1  3.4 m2/ha), y riqueza de especies (19).
24643686|Trapping sessions consisting of repeated captures are routinely used to assess demography, social organization, and habitat associations of small mammals. Some capture-recapture analyses require a high number of trapping occasions for precise estimates, but repeatedly capturing an animal may have adverse effects on individuals and populations. During 20022006, we examined patterns of capture, changes in body mass, and longer-term survival in a population of dusky-footed woodrats (Neotoma fuscipes). During 10 trapping sessions of 3 nights each, we captured 1,824 woodrats 4,705 times. Captures per individual averaged 1.6/trapping session. Nearly all woodrats (91%) lost mass at a rate of 3.5%/capture. Mass loss was cumulative over consecutive days, averaging ca. 3.5% of body mass after the second capture and 6.8% after the third capture. Woodrats lost slightly more mass during trapping sessions in the fall than during sessions in the spring. Percentage of change in mass was not associated with age or sex, and a single day of rest between captures did not appreciably reduce loss of mass. Juveniles were least likely and reproductive females were most likely to be captured repeatedly within a trapping session. Our analysis provided no compelling evidence that repeated captures for 3 consecutive days had a cumulative detrimental impact on survival of woodrats, at least for the 5-month period between trapping sessions. Live-trapping, however, might influence individual fecundity or fitness and, therefore, might have demographic consequences. Sesiones de trampeo que consisten en capturas repetidas son usadas rutinariamente para evaluar la demografia, la organizacin social, y las asociaciones de hbitat de mamferos pequeos. Algunos anlisis de captura-recaptura requieren un nmero elevado de ocasiones de trampeo para contar con estimaciones precisas, pero las capturas repetidas de animales podran tener efectos adversos en individuos y en poblaciones. Durante 20022006, examinamos patrones de captura, cambios en masa corporal, y sobrevivencia a largo plazo en una poblacin de ratas cambalacheras de patas oscuras (Neotoma fuscipes). Durante 10 sesiones de atrapamiento de 3 noches cada una, capturamos 1,824 ratas cambalacheras 4,705 veces. Las capturas por individuo promediaron 1.6/sesin de atrapamiento. Casi todas las ratas cambalacheras (91%) perdieron masa corporal a razn de 3.5%/captura. La prdida de masa fue cumulativa sobre das consecutivos, promediando aprox. 3.5% de masa corporal despus de la segunda captura y 6.8% despus de la tercera captura. Las ratas cambalacheras perdieron ligeramente ms masa corporal durante las sesiones de trampeo en el otoo que durante las sesiones en la primavera. El cambio en porcentaje de masa no estuvo asociado con la edad o el sexo y un slo da de descanso entre capturas no redujo apreciablemente la prdida de masa corporal. Los juveniles fueron menos probables y las hembras reproductivas fueron ms probables de ser capturadas repetidamente en sesiones de trampeo. Nuestro anlisis no provey evidencia contundente que capturas repetidas de 3 das consecutivos tuvieran un impacto perjudicial cumulativo en la supervivencia de las ratas cambalacheras, por lo menos por el periodo de 5 meses entre las sesiones de trampeo. El trampeo en vivo, sin embargo, podra influir en la fecundidad  la adecuacin y, por lo tanto, podra tener consecuencias demogrficas.
24643687|Agave durangensis is an endemic species that occurs in a reduced area in southern Durango and northern Zacatecas, Mexico. We analyzed the genetic variability of three populations of the species using two pairs of Inverse-Sequence-Tagged-Repeat primers and nine morphological characters to determine the species of the morphologically variable populations. The primers generated characteristic amplification profiles, which distinguished between populations of A. durangensis and revealed interspecific variability when compared with individuals of A. asperrima. Some incongruence between morphological and molecular variability was detected. High genetic variability was indicated by an elevated level of polymorphism (24.1861.50%) among 91 genetic loci amplified and by the level of gene diversity (0.08070.2337) among populations. Genetic differentiation (0.03280.4857), gene flow (0.529414.7511), genetic distance (0.02000.3019), and genetic identity (0.76530.9802) among populations suggested that one of the three populations of A. durangensis is in a present advanced diversification process but may still maintain some level of gene flow with the other two populations. Urgent conservation efforts, including protection from harvest, should be addressed for maintaining the genetic variability of the natural populations of A. durangensis. Agave durangensis es una especie endmica que crece en un rea reducida del sur de Durango y norte de Zacatecas, Mxico. Analizamos la variabilidad gentica de tres poblaciones de esa especie usando dos pares de iniciadores de los marcadores de Repeticin de Secuencias Inversas Marcadas (ISTR por sus siglas en ingls) y nueve atributos morfolgicos para determinar las especies de las poblaciones morfolgicamente muy variables. Los iniciadores generaron perfiles de amplificacin caractersticos, mostrando su capacidad para distinguir entre poblaciones de A. durangensis y para revelar variabilidad intereespecfica cuando los perfiles se compararon con los de A. asperrima. Incongruencia entre la variabilidad morfolgica y la molecular fue detectada. Alta variabilidad gentica fue encontrada, indicada por los elevados niveles de polimorfismo (24.1861.50 %) entre 91 loci genticos amplificados y por los valores de diversidad gnica (0.08070.2337) entre poblaciones. Diferenciacin gentica interpoblacional (0.03280.4857), flujo gentico (0.529414.7511), distancia gentica (0.02000.3019) y la identidad gentica (0.76530.9802) sugieren que una de las tres poblaciones de A. durangensis se encuentra en un proceso actual avanzado de diversificacin, pero que an existe flujo gentico con las otras dos poblaciones. Esfuerzos urgentes de conservacin incluyendo la proteccin de recoleccin se deberan de contemplar para mantener la variabilidad gentica de las poblaciones naturales de A. durangensis.
24643688|We studied the reproductive cycle of female Sceloporus aeneus from a population southeast of Mexico City (Milpa Alta), Mexico, from April 1993March 1994. Females have a seasonal reproductive pattern with maximum activity in spring, a pattern typical of temperate oviparous species of the genus. Each female produces up to two clutches per breeding season, with a clutch size ranging from 410, which is not correlated with snout-vent length of females. De abril de 1993 a marzo de 1994 estudiamos el ciclo reproductor de las hembras de Sceloporus aeneus en una poblacin al sureste de la Ciudad de Mxico (Milpa Alta), Mxico. Las hembras muestran un patrn reproductor estacional con actividad mxima en la primavera, un patrn tpico de las especies ovparas de ambiente templado del gnero. Cada hembra produce hasta dos nidadas por temporada reproductora, con un tamao de puesta que vara de 410 huevos, el cual no se correlaciona con la longitud hocico-cloaca de las hembras.
24643689|Twelve pairs of captive-bred Devils River minnows, Dionda diaboli, were each held at 21, 24, and 27C, as were a total of 236 of their offspring, for 252 days to test the effects of temperature on survival, growth, and reproduction. We found no significant difference in survival. Growth rate (millimeters per day) for adults was about two times higher at 21C than at 24 or 27C while, for offspring, it was significantly higher at 21 and 24C than at 27C. The weekly number of reproductions (per pair per week, 0 or 1) was significantly higher for fish held at 24C than for fish held at 21 or 27C. These results further support the importance of flow of springs as a necessary component for survival of this federally threatened species. Doce parejas de pez diablo (Dionda diaboli), criadas en cautiverio, y un total de 236 de sus cras, fueron mantenidos a 21, 24, y 27C 252 das para investigar los efectos de la temperatura en sobrevivencia, crecimiento, y reproduccin. No encontramos diferencias significativas en la sobrevivencia. La tasa de crecimiento (milmetros por da) en adultos fue cerca de 2 veces ms alta a 21C que a 24 o 27C, mientras que para las cras fue significativamente ms alta a 21 y 24C que a 27C. El nmero de reproducciones por semana (por pareja por semana, 0  1) fue significativamente ms alto en peces mantenidos en 24C que en 21 o 27C. Estos resultados prestan apoyo adicional a la importancia de fuentes de manantiales como un componente necesario para la supervivencia de esta especie amenazada al nivel federal.
24643690|Life-history theory is based on the idea that trade-offs exist in allocation of resources. The same energy cannot simultaneously fuel growth and reproduction or simultaneously increase size and number of offspring. Many genetic, physiological, and environmental variables influence how trade-offs manifest and whether they are detectable through phenotypic correlations. In most squamates, the absence of parental care enables estimation of reproductive investment using mass of offspring. This, as well as their diverse ecologies, makes squamates an attractive system for empirical tests of life history theory. Approximately 20% of squamates are viviparous, and long gestation periods limit most to one litter per year. Carrying offspring until an advanced developmental stage may increase the burden of the litter, and female abdominal volume may constrain litter size. These factors should intensify selection on female tactics of life history and enhance detectability of trade-offs. We compare life history of females in two species within the Sceloporus grammicus species complex, viviparous Mexican lizards from varied habitats. Each inhabits one of the primary ecosystems used by this taxon (chaparral and forest). Litter sizes were lower in the chaparral population, when adjusted for body size of the mother. A trade-off of size versus number of offspring was detected in the forest population but not in the chaparral population. The chaparral population varied more in average neonate mass between years, which may relate to local extinctions, likely linked to climate change, in Mexican montane lizards. Regardless of whether these differences represent adaptation or plasticity, our findings emphasize the importance of environmental influence on trade-offs in life history. La hiptesis de que existen compromisos en la asignacin de recursos es la base de muchas teoras de historia de vida. La misma energa no puede apoyar simultneamente el crecimiento somtico y la reproduccin, ni simultneamente aumentar el nmero de cras y el tamao de stas. Muchas variables genticas, fisiolgicas y ambientales influyen en cmo se manifiestan los compromisos y si sos son detectados por correlaciones fenotpicas. En la mayora de las lagartijas, la ausencia del cuidado parental significa que la inversin reproductiva se puede estimar por la masa de los neonatos. Esto, junto con sus diversas ecologas, las hacen ideales para pruebas empricas de la teora de historia de vida. Aproximadamente el 20% de la Squamata es vivpara, y largos periodos de gestacin limitan a la mayora a una camada anual. Llevar las cras hasta un estadio avanzado de desarrollo puede aumentar el efecto de la carga y las restricciones por el volumen abdominal de la hembra pueden restringir el tamao de la camada. Estos factores deben intensificar la seleccin sobre las estrategias de las hembras de historia de vida y aumentar la detectabilidad de los compromisos. Se compara la historia de vida por hembras de dos especies del complejo Sceloporus grammicus, lagartijas vivparas mexicanas de ambientes variados. Cada especie se encuentra en uno de los dos ecosistemas principalmente usados por este complejo (matorral y bosque de pino). Las camadas contenan menos cras en la poblacin del matorral, incluyndose el tamao corporal de la madre como covariable. Se detect un compromiso entre el tamao de la camada y la masa promedio de cras en la poblacin del bosque, pero no en la del matorral. La poblacin del matorral vari ms en la masa promedio de neonatos entre aos, la cual podra relacionarse con extinciones locales, probablemente vinculadas al cambio climtico, registradas en las lagartijas de las montaas de Mxico. Aunque las diferencias representen adaptaciones o flexibilidad, nuestros resultados enfatizan la influencia del ambiente sobre los compromisos de historia de vida.
24643691|The Mediterranean gecko, Hemidactylus turcicus, is a nonnative lizard that lives on buildings and other artificial structures in the southern United States. Previous studies have shown that geckos rarely move from one building to another and that, when they do, it is usually due to juveniles dispersing to new buildings. Little is known about the movements of geckos on the buildings they occupy or about the degree to which males and females or adults and juveniles associate with each other during their nocturnal activity periods. We used data from a multi-year, mark-recapture study of a population of Mediterranean geckos on a one-story building in southwestern Louisiana to analyze movements of geckos between recaptures and to analyze age and sex of pairs of geckos. The distance moved by adult geckos between recaptures was usually small (<5 m) regardless of whether the time between recaptures was <30 days, >30 days within a year, or in succeeding years. There was no difference in patterns of movement between adult males and adult females. Occasionally, adult geckos did make long-distance movements of 18 m, but these were often followed by movements back to their starting point. Juvenile geckos generally moved greater distances between recaptures than did adults, perhaps as a means of dispersal to a new area on the building. Juvenile geckos were associated with adult geckos in pairs less frequently than expected whereas the number of same-sex and different-sex pairs of adults did not differ from expectations if males and females associated randomly. Overall, the results present a picture of juveniles moving long distances, perhaps to escape contacts with adults, but typically remaining in their home areas for months or years once they become adults. El geco casero del Mediterrneo, Hemidactylus turcicus, es una lagartija no nativa que vive en los edificios y en otras estructuras artificiales en el sur de los Estados Unidos. Estudios previos han mostrado que los gecos raramente se mueven de un edificio al otro, y que cuando lo hacen, usualmente son los juveniles los que se dispersan a nuevos edificios. Poco se sabe sobre los movimientos de los gecos en los edificios que ocupan o sobre el grado en que machos y hembras o adultos y juveniles se asocian entre si durante sus periodos de actividad nocturna. Usamos datos de varios aos de un estudio de marca-recaptura de una poblacin de gecos caseros del Mediterrneo en un edificio de un piso en el suroeste de Louisiana para analizar los movimientos de los gecos entre recapturas y analizar la edad y el sexo de pares de gecos. La distancia recorrida por los gecos adultos entre recapturas fue por lo general pequea (<5 m), sin importar si el tiempo entre recapturas era <30 das, >30 das dentro de un ao o en los aos sucesivos. No hubo diferencia en los patrones de movimiento entre adultos machos y hembras. Ocasionalmente, los gecos adultos hicieron desplazamientos de una distancia larga de 18 m, pero estos fueron frecuentemente seguidos por movimientos de vuelta hacia el punto de partida. Los gecos juveniles por lo general recorran distancias ms grandes entre recapturas que los adultos, tal vez como un medio de dispersarse hacia una nueva rea en el edificio. Los gecos juveniles fueron asociados en pares con los gecos adultos menos frecuentemente de lo esperado, mientras el nmero de los pares del mismo sexo y diferente sexo no se diferenciaron en las expectativas si es que los machos y hembras se asociaban al azar. En fin, los resultados presentan una imagen de juveniles desplazndose por largas distancias, quizs para evitar contacto con los adultos, pero tpicamente permaneciendo en sus hogares por meses o aos una vez que se convierten en adultos.
24643692|We sampled gasteroid fungi seasonally over a year in the protected area of the Sierra de Mazatn mountain range, Sonora, in three types of vegetation (oak forest, subtropical scrub, and mesquite scrub). We described the biotic and abiotic factors of the three study sites and estimated the Shannon diversity index, the Pielou evenness, the Simpson dominance, and the Jaccard similarity indices based on the mycobiota. A total of 37 species were identified; these are the first records of fungi in the Sierra de Mazatn. Tulostoma, Geastrum, and Lycoperdon were the most represented genera with nine, seven, and six species, respectively. Fungal diversity was 2.9 in mesquite scrub, 2.4 in oak forest, and 0.9 in subtropical scrub. The distribution of gasteroid fungi appears to be more influenced by type of vegetation than by edaphic factors. En el rea natural protegida de la Sierra de Mazatn, Sonora, se realiz un muestreo estacional de hongos gasteroides durante un ao en tres tipos de vegetacin (bosque de encino, matorral subtropical y matorral de mezquite). Se caracterizaron los factores biticos y abiticos de las tres localidades de estudio. Con base en la micobiota se estimaron el ndice de diversidad de Shannon, equidad de Pielou, dominancia de Simpson y similitud de Jaccard. Se identificaron un total de 37 especies; stos son los primeros registros de hongos en la Sierra de Mazatn. Tulostoma, Geastrum y Lycoperdon fueron los gneros mejor representados con nueve, siete y seis especies respectivamente. La diversidad fngica fue de 2.9 en matorral de mezquite, 2.4 en bosque de encino y 0.9 en matorral subtropical. La distribucin de hongos gasteroides parece ms influenciada por el tipo de vegetacin que los factores edficos.
24643693|Human activities have reduced availability of suitable habitats for waterbirds across the globe. The least grebe (Tachybaptus dominicus) is a waterbird that has been negatively affected by human alterations of aquatic habitats. In Mexico, the least grebe is a protected species which breeds year-round in coastal habitats at the Pacific and Atlantic slopes. Throughout June 2011, the species was recorded breeding in a small, artificial mid-stream pond within a temperate forest in Central Mexico, which represents a very unusual observation. Disturbance of its original breeding area might have forced it to move long distances to locate suitable habitat. The artificial pond was covered by vegetation and had abundant food, thus serving as adequate breeding habitat, despite being located outside the range of the species. As suggested by this and other records from northern and southern central Mexico, artificial bodies of water might represent important breeding refuges for the least grebe. Thus, managing habitats created by humans could satisfy human needs and benefit wildlife. The integration of native vegetation in artificial bodies of water (i.e., jageyes) could offer attractive resources for waterbirds. Exploring the effectiveness of bodies of water created by humans to provide suitable habitats for wildlife could assist in the conservation of birds. Las actividades humanas han reducido la disponibilidad de hbitat adecuado para las aves acuticas alrededor de todo el mundo. El zambullidor menor (Tachybaptus dominicus) es un ave acutica que ha sido negativamente afectada por la intervencin humana en los ecosistemas acuticos. En Mxico, el zambullidor menor es una especie protegida que se reproduce a lo largo de todo el ao en los hbitats costeros de las vertientes del Pacfico y del Atlntico. Durante junio de 2011, esta especie fue registrada reproducindose en una represa artificial localizada al interior de un bosque templado en la regin central de Mxico, lo cual es poco usual. El disturbio de su hbitat reproductivo original podra haber forzado a los individuos observados a moverse largas distancias para localizar un hbitat adecuado para reproducirse. La represa inclua una cobertura vegetal y abundantes recursos alimenticios, lo que sirvi como hbitat reproductivo adecuado para el zambullidor menor a pesar de estar localizada fuera del rea de distribucin de la especie. De acuerdo a lo sugerido por sta y otras observaciones realizadas al norte y sur de la regin central de Mxico, los cuerpos de agua artificiales podran representar refugios reproductivos importantes para el zambullidor menor. De esta forma, el manejo de los hbitats creados por el ser humano podra satisfacer tanto las necesidades del hombre como las de la vida silvestre. La inclusin de vegetacin nativa en cuerpos de agua artificiales (i.e., jageyes) podra ofrecer recursos atractivos para aves acuticas. Explorar la efectividad de los cuerpos de agua creados por el ser humano para proveer hbitats adecuados para la vida silvestre podra complementar las actividades de conservacin de aves.
24643694|Native species of juniper are encroaching on grasslands throughout the Great Plains. Prescribed fire is often used to treat or prevent the early stages of encroachment, but little information is available about the contribution of small junipers to overall fuel loads. I sampled 33 individuals of Ashe juniper (Juniperus ashei) from grasslands on Fort Hood Military Reservation, Texas. The relationship between size and above-ground biomass differed for small and larger trees. I focused most of my analyses on small trees (<15 cm in basal diameter), which are most likely to burn in a prescribed fire. Allometric equations based on basal diameter (BD) or basal diameter and height (BD2H) predicted total biomass better than equations using only tree height, canopy area, or canopy volume (r2 = 0.950.97 versus r2 = 0.710.77). Living and total biomass for smaller fuel-classes (<25 mm in diameter) were more accurately predicted than dead biomass and larger fuel-classes (r2 = 0.940.98 versus r2 = 0.750.87). Only equations based on BD2H could model the entire range of trees sampled adequately (BD of 1.738.4 cm; height of 0.654.60 m). These equations will allow nondestructive estimation of biomass of Ashe juniper and thereby improve predictions of behavior and effects of fire based on estimations of fuel load. Las especies nativas de enebro estn invadiendo los pastizales de las Grandes Planicies. A menudo el fuego prescrito es utilizado para prevenir las etapas tempranas de invasin, sin embargo es escasa la informacin disponible sobre la contribucin de enebros pequeos a la carga de combustible total. Muestre 33 individuos de enebros de monte (Juniperus ashei) en pastizales de Fort Hood Military Reservation, Texas. La relacin entre el tamao y la biomasa arriba de la tierra difiri entre rboles pequeos y grandes. Enfoqu la mayora de los anlisis sobre los rboles pequeos (<15 cm de dimetro basal), los cuales tienen una mayor probabilidad de quemarse durante un fuego prescrito. Las ecuaciones alomtricas basadas en el dimetro basal (DB) o en el dimetro basal ms la altura (DB2A) predijeron mejor la biomasa total que las ecuaciones basadas slo en la altura del rbol, en el rea o en el volumen del dosel (r2 = 0.950.97 versus r2 = 0.710.77). La biomasa viva y total para las clases de combustible del menor tamao (<25 mm de dimetro) fueron predichas de manera ms precisa que la biomasa muerta para las clases de combustible mayores (r2 = 0.940.98 versus r2 = 0.750.87). Slo las ecuaciones basadas en DB2A podran modelar adecuadamente el rango completo de rboles muestreados (DB de 1.738.4 cm; altura de 0.654.60 m). Estas ecuaciones permitirn realizar estimaciones no destructivas de la biomasa del enebro de monte, permitiendo mejorar las predicciones sobre el comportamiento y los efectos del fuego en base a las estimaciones de la carga de combustible.
24643695|We report on three interactions between long-tailed weasels (Mustela frenata) and Neotropical singing mice (Scotinomys). Our observations suggest that weasels are potential acoustically-orienting predators of singing mice. We speculate that differences in pressure from eavesdropping by weasels may contribute to differences in length and complexity of songs between sister species of Neotropical singing mice. Reportamos tres interacciones entre la comadreja de cola larga (Mustela frenata) y los ratones cantores neotropicales (Scotinomys). Nuestras observaciones sugieren que las comadrejas potencialmente escuchan las vocalizaciones y as favorecen la depredacin de estos ratones. Especulamos que diferencias en la presin de escuchar subrepticiamente por comadrejas pueden contribuir a las diferencias en duracin y complejidad de la vocalizacin entre especies hermanas de los ratones cantores neotropicales.
24643696|The razorback sucker (Xyrauchen texanus) is a federally-endangered, large-bodied catostomid found in the Green River, Utah, a tributary to the Colorado River. Although populations of adults in the Green River appear to be increasing through stocking, recruitment has been minimal or nonexistent for several decades. Flows in the Green River in 2011 were the fourth highest in 66 years of records. These environmental conditions were favorable for survival of young-of-year razorback suckers. The purpose of this study was to determine if wild young-of-year razorback suckers occurred during fall 2011 in wetlands in the middle Green River; such observations had not been achieved since 1996. Fyke and trammel nets, minnow traps, and seines were used to sample 15 wetlands in the middle Green River (Flaming Gorge to Desolation Canyon). A total of 18 wild juvenile razorback suckers were captured in two of the wetlands. El matalote jorobado (Xyrauchen texanus) es un catostmido grande en peligro de extincin a nivel nacional que se encuentra en el ro Verde, en Utah, un afluente del ro Colorado. Aunque poblaciones de adultos en el ro Verde parecen estar aumentando por medio de la siembra, el reclutamiento ha sido mnimo o inexistente desde hace varias dcadas. Los flujos en el ro Verde en 2011 fueron los cuartos ms altos en 66 aos de registros. Estas condiciones ambientales fueron favorables para la supervivencia de los juveniles del ao del matalote jorobado. El propsito de este estudio fue determinar si los juveniles silvestres del matalote jorobado se encontraron en el otoo del 2011 en humedales del ro Verde intermedio; tales observaciones no se haban hecho desde 1996. Redes de fyke, redes de trasmallo, trampas de pececillos, y redes de cerco fueron usadas para muestrear 15 humedales en el ro Verde intermedio (desde Flaming Gorge hasta Desolation Canyon). Un total de 18 juveniles silvestres del matalote jorobado se capturaron en dos humedales.
24643697|We report the predation by a coyote (Canis latrans jamesi) on a foraging, adult blue-footed booby (Sula nebouxii) during the early afternoon on 2 December 2009 on the west coast of Isla Tiburn in the Gulf of California, Mexico. The observed event took place while a flock of blue-footed and brown boobies (Sula leucogaster) was plunge-diving close to shore. The food habits of coyotes on Isla Tiburn are not known, and capture of live adult boobies by coyotes has not previously been documented in the literature. Se reporta la depredacin de un coyote (Canis latrans jamesi) sobre un individuo adulto de bobo de patas azules (Sula nebouxii) mientras forrajeaba durante la tarde del 2 de diciembre de 2009 en la costa oeste de isla Tiburn en el Golfo de California, Mxico. El evento se present mientras un grupo de bobos de patas azules y bobos caf (Sula leucogaster) estaba zambullndose cerca de la costa. Se desconocen los hbitos alimentarios de los coyotes en isla Tiburn y la captura de aves marinas adultas por coyotes no ha sido documentada anteriormente en la literatura.
24643698|Buffelgrass (Cenchrus ciliaris L.) is one of the most invasive species of plants in arid lands of North America, especially in the Sonoran Desert. The climatic niche described by previous studies for this species suggests that the climatic conditions of its adjacent Mediterranean region are a constraint on the establishment of buffelgrass. However, collections registered in recent years in herbaria and repeated observations of its presence along roadsides in the coastal scrub of Mediterranean Baja California would suggest the opposite. To analyze this apparent contradiction, we surveyed the principal paved roads of the northern half of Baja California peninsula, established its current distribution along roadsides, and contrasted the climatic conditions of the observed distribution with the climatic niche established in the literature. We found buffelgrass to be scant with scattered distribution in the Sonoran Desert and, contrastingly, widespread in the Mediterranean Region. About half of the observed distribution of buffelgrass in the Mediterranean Region (42%) has climatic conditions to persist and even spread. El zacate buffel (Cenchrus ciliaris L.) es una de las especies de plantas ms invasoras en las regiones ridas de Norteamrica, especialmente en el desierto Sonorense. El nicho climtico descrito por estudios previos para esta especie sugiere que las condiciones climticas de la contigua regin Mediterrnea son una limitante para el establecimiento del zacate buffel. Sin embargo, colectas de herbario registradas en aos recientes y repetidas observaciones de su presencia a lo largo de los bordes de carretera en el matorral costero de la parte mediterrnea de Baja California sugeriran lo contrario. Para analizar esta aparente contradiccin muestreamos las principales carreteras pavimentadas de la mitad norte de la pennsula de Baja California, establecimos su distribucin actual a lo largo de las carreteras y contrastamos las condiciones climticas de la distribucin observada con el nicho climtico establecido en la literatura. Encontramos que el zacate buffel era escaso y de distribucin dispersa en el desierto Sonorense y por el contrario, ampliamente distribuido en la regin Mediterrnea. Alrededor de la mitad de la distribucin observada de zacate buffel en la regin Mediterrnea (42%) tiene condiciones climticas para persistir e incluso expandirse.
24643699|Though adults and older juveniles of some species are commonly encountered in freshwater reaches of coastal streams and rivers, pipefishes in general are believed to be either amphidromous or marine. In 1992, Gulf pipefish (Syngnathus scovelli) were reported in Lake Texana, a reservoir on the Navidad River near Edna, Jackson County, Texas. In June 2011, we collected an adult male with embryos and a juvenile from the same lake. This strongly suggests reproduction and persistence of the population at Lake Texana, which does not have access to saline waters. Though presence of a viable, reproducing population was not absolutely confirmed this appears likely to be the first known landlocked, freshwater population of any species of pipefish. Aunque adultos y juveniles mayores de algunas especies se encuentran comnmente en aguas dulces de arroyos y ros costeros, en general se considera que las especies de pez pipa son anfdromas o marinas. En 1992, el pez pipa del Golfo (Syngnathus scovelli) fue reportado en el Lake Texana, una presa artificial sobre el ro Navidad cerca al poblado de Edna, condado de Jackson, Texas. En junio de 2011, colectamos un macho adulto con embriones y un juvenil en el mismo lago, hecho que sugiere la reproduccin y persistencia de la poblacin del Lake Texana, el cual no tiene acceso a aguas salobres. Aunque no se ha confirmado absolutamente, parece muy probable que esta poblacin represente la primera poblacin de pez pipa que puede reproducirse en agua dulce sin tener salida a agua salobre.
24643700|Saussurea weberi Hultn (Weber's saw-wort) is a rare alpine calciphilic plant of the Rocky Mountains with disjunct populations in Colorado, Wyoming, and Montana. In Colorado, populations of S. weberi are scattered among <20 locations within the Mosquito Range and Hoosier Ridge regions. Saussurea weberi has specific habitat requirements, and its populations or populations of its pollinators may be susceptible to changing climatic conditions and use of off-road vehicles. It is scarce and discontinuous throughout its range, and there is no reliable estimate of density or abundance. Most estimates of abundance are based on cursory visits and unreplicated counts. To quantify size of the population at one of its centers, I used distance-sampling techniques to sample the population at Horseshoe Cirque, Park County, Colorado. I estimated density and abundance and examined variability of estimates to provide information for understanding the size of populations and for guidance in future protocols for sampling. Saussurea weberi Hultn es una planta alpina poco comn de suelos de sales de calcio en las Rocky Mountains con poblaciones disyuntas en Colorado, Wyoming y Montana. En Colorado se dispersan poblaciones de S. weberi en <20 lugares dentro de las regiones del Mosquito Range y Hoosier Ridge. Saussurea weberi tiene requisitos particulares de hbitat, y sus poblaciones o las poblaciones de sus polinizadores pueden resultar susceptibles a condiciones cambiantes de clima y el uso de vehculos de todo terreno. Es una planta escasa y discontinua por toda su distribucin geogrfica y no existen estimaciones confiables de su densidad ni abundancia. La mayora de las estimaciones de abundancia se basa en visitas superficiales y conteos no replicados. Para cuantificar el tamao de la poblacin en uno de sus centros, se usaron las tcnicas de muestreo de distancia para muestrear la poblacin en Horseshoe Cirque en el condado de Park del estado de Colorado. Hice estimaciones de la densidad y la abundancia y evalu la variabilidad de las estimaciones para proporcionar informacin que sirva para entender el tamao de las poblaciones y para proveer orientacin para los protocolos de muestreos futuros.
24643701|The grassland-adapted cicada Beameria venosa is reported for the first time from Arkansas, from Terre Noire Natural Area, a prairie remnant in southwestern Arkansas. This observation extends the known range of the species approximately 200 km southeastward. La cigarra Beameria venosa, adaptada a los pastizales, est registrada por primera vez en el estado de Arkansas, de Terre Noire Natural Area, un remanente de la pradera en el suroeste de Arkansas. Esta observacin extiende la distribucin geogrfica conocida de la especie a aproximadamente 200 kilmetros hacia el sureste.
24643702|Eastern bluebirds (Sialia sialis) are socially monogamous passerines with rare documented occurrences of polygyny, polyandry, and juvenile-helping behavior. We observed an adult male assisting another adult male at a nest-box with a single nestling. Both adults fed the nestling and defended the nest. One of the males attended a new nest with a second female on an adjacent territory as the nestling in the first nest-box approached fledging. Although both males were present at the second nest, we did not observe helping behavior. It is unusual for territorial breeding adults to tolerate the presence of an adult male in this species. It is possible that the helper male was related to the breeding pair or that the banded male tolerated the helper male due to increased predation in the area. The presence of an adult male helper is a rare observation for eastern bluebirds, and this observation contributes valuable information about the diversity of breeding strategies utilized by bluebirds. Los azulejos garganta canela (Sialia sialis) son paseriformes socialmente mongamos con raros sucesos documentados de poligamia, poliandria y comportamiento de ayuda de individuos juveniles. Observamos a un macho adulto ayudando a otro macho adulto en un nido artificial que contena slo un polluelo. Ambos adultos alimentaron al polluelo y defendieron el nido. Uno de los machos junto con una segunda hembra asisti en otro nido en un territorio adyacente mientras el polluelo del primer nido estaba prximo a ser volantn. Aunque los dos machos estuvieron presentes en el segundo nido, no observamos el comportamiento de ayuda. Es inusual que adultos reproductivos territoriales toleren la presencia de un macho adulto en esta especie. Es posible que el macho ayudante estuviera emparentado con la pareja reproductora o que el macho marcado tolerara al individuo ayudante debido al incremento de la depredacin en el rea. La presencia de un ayudante macho adulto es una observacin rara en los azulejos, esta observacin aporta informacin valiosa sobre la diversidad de estrategias reproductivas utilizadas por los azulejos.
24643720|Douglas-fir dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium douglasii) is a parasitic flowering plant that infects Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) throughout the western United States. Douglas-fir dwarf mistletoe induces the formation of witches' brooms on infected trees which alters the biomass and architecture of branches of the infected host. We obtained pairs of broomed and nonbroomed branches of Douglas-fir for sampling and comparing the communities of insects found in each type of branch. Twenty-five families were identified from branches of Douglas-fir, with Chrysomelidae, Phaleothripidae, Pteromalidae, and Braconidae being most common. Richness and totals of insects were one and a half to five times greater in witches' brooms than in nonbroomed branches, respectively. Significantly more Chrysomelidae, Phaleothripidae, Pteromalidae, Miridae, Berytidae, and Braconidae were found on broomed than on nonbroomed branches. However, no significant difference in the structure of the community based on relative abundance was found between broomed and nonbroomed branches. No species of insects was unique to either type of branch. This study represents the first to examine communities of insects in witches' brooms induced by Douglas-fir dwarf mistletoe. El murdago enano (Arceuthobium douglasii) es una planta parsita que infecta el abeto de Douglas (Pseudotsuga menziesii) en todo el oeste de los Estados Unidos. Este murdago induce la formacin de escobas de brujas en los rboles infectados que altera la biomasa y la arquitectura de las ramas del husped infectado. Obtuvimos pares de ramas con y sin escobas de brujas de abeto de Douglas para muestrear y comparar las comunidades de insectos que se encuentran en cada tipo de rama. Veinticinco familias fueron identificadas en las ramas de abeto de Douglas, con Chrysomelidae, Phaleothripidae, Pteromalidae y Braconidae siendo las ms comunes. La riqueza y los totales de los insectos fueron uno y medio a cinco veces mayor en las escobas de las brujas que en ramas sin escobas, respectivamente. Significativamente ms Chrysomelidae, Phaleothripidae, Pteromalidae, Miridae, Berytidae y Braconidae se encontraron en las ramas con escobas que en las sin escobas. Sin embargo, no se encontraron diferencias significativas en la estructura de la comunidad basada en la abundancia relativa entre ramas con escobas y ramas sin escobas. Ninguna especie de insecto fue nica para cualquier tipo de rama. Este estudio es el primero en examinar las comunidades de insectos en las escobas de brujas inducidas por murdago enano.
24643721|Recovery efforts for the endangered ocelot (Leopardus pardalis) would be aided by knowledge of its feeding ecology in the affected region. We analyzed scat of ocelots and bobcats (Lynx rufus) from southern Texas. As has been found for most other populations of ocelots, rodents were the primary prey, but the principal species of rodent, the Mexican spiny pocket mouse (Liomys irroratus), is smaller than the principal prey reported for other populations of ocelots. Lagomorphs were more common prey than has been reported in other studies of ocelots, and birds more common prey than in all but one previous study. The diet of bobcats appeared similar overall to the diet of ocelots, but lagomorphs occurred in a significantly higher proportion of scats from bobcats. The data suggest that bobcats also preyed more heavily on the largest rodents and less on the medium-sized rodents than ocelots did. There was no clear division by type of habitat; both felids preyed approximately equally on species that are found primarily in grassland and those that are found in thornscrub. Near the United States-Mexico border, where the ranges of these felids overlap, there is the potential for substantial competition for resources between the two species. An important component of efforts to restore the population of ocelots in this region, therefore, will be a thorough investigation of this possibility. Studies of the dietary differences when both or only one of the felid species is present in an area, use of foraging habitat by both species, and the relationship between densities of prey and felids would allow the likelihood of negative impacts of competition to be fully evaluated. Informacin sobre la ecologa alimentaria del ocelote (Leopardus pardalis) en peligro de extincin ayudara los esfuerzos de su recuperacin. Analizamos excretas de ocelote y de gato monts (Lynx rufus) colectadas en el sur de Texas. Como se ha encontrado en la mayora de poblaciones de ocelote, los roedores fueron la presa principal, pero la especie de presa principal, Liomys irroratus, es ms pequea que las especies de presa principal de las otras poblaciones de ocelote. Los lagomorfos fueron presas ms frecuentes que reportan otros estudios de ocelotes, y aves fueron presas ms frecuentes que en todos los estudios anteriores menos uno. La dieta del gato monts se pareci a la del ocelote, pero se encontraron lagomorfos en una proporcin significativamente mayor en las excretas del gato monts. Los datos sugieren tambin que los gatos monts depredaron ms a los roedores grandes y menos a los roedores medianos que los ocelotes. No hubo divisin clara por hbitat; ambos felinos depredaron casi igualmente a las especies que se encuentran principalmente en las praderas como las que se encuentran en el matorral espinoso. Cerca de la frontera USA-Mxico, donde traslapan las distribuciones de estos felinos, hay potencial para competencia sustantiva por recursos entre las dos especies. Un componente importante de los esfuerzos de recuperacin del ocelote en esta regin ser una investigacin completa de esta posibilidad. Los estudios sobre las diferencias de dieta cuando ambos o uno de los felinos ocupa un rea, el uso de hbitat por cada especie durante el forrajeo, y la conexin entre la densidad de presas y la de los felinos permitiran una evaluacin completa de la probabilidad de efectos negativos de la competencia.
24643722|The western yellow-billed cuckoo (Coccyzus americanus occidentalis) is a Distinct Population Segment that has been proposed for listing under the Endangered Species Act, yet very little is known about its spatial use on the breeding grounds. We implemented a study, using radio telemetry, of home range and use of habitat for breeding cuckoos along the Middle Rio Grande in central New Mexico in 2007 and 2008. Nine of 13 cuckoos were tracked for sufficient time to generate estimates of home range. Overall size of home ranges for the 2 years was 91 ha for a minimum-convex-polygon estimate and 62 ha for a 95%-kernel-home-range estimate. Home ranges varied considerably among individuals, highlighting variability in spatial use by cuckoos. Additionally, use of habitat differed between core areas and overall home ranges, but the differences were nonsignificant. Home ranges calculated for western yellow-billed cuckoos on the Middle Rio Grande are larger than those in other southwestern riparian areas. Based on calculated home ranges and availability of riparian habitat in the study area, we estimate that the study area is capable of supporting 8299 nonoverlapping home ranges of cuckoos. Spatial data from this study should contribute to the understanding of the requirements of area and habitat of this species for management of resources and help facilitate recovery if a listing occurs. El cuclillo pico amarillo (Coccyzus americanus occidentalis) es un segmento poblacional distinto que ha sido propuesto para listarse bajo el Endangered Species Act aun cuando no se sabe mucho acerca de su uso de espacio en sus tierras reproductoras. Implementamos un estudio, usando la radiotelemetra, del rango de hogar y uso de hbitat de los cuclillos reproducindose a lo largo del rio Grande Medio en el centro de Nuevo Mxico, en 2007 y 2008. Se sigui el rastro de nueve de trece cuclillos por tiempo suficiente para generar un estimado del rango de hogar. El tamao del rango de hogar para los dos aos fue 91 ha usando el mtodo de estimacin del polgono convexo mnimo, y 62 ha usando el mtodo de estimacin del ncleo de 95%. Los rangos de hogar variaron considerablemente entre individuos, mostrando la diversidad del uso del espacio por los cuclillos. Adicionalmente, el uso del hbitat difiri entre el ncleo y todo el rango de hogar, pero la diferencia no fue significativa. Los rangos de hogar del cuclillo en el rea de estudio del rio Grande son mayores que los de otras reas ribereas del suroeste. Basados en el tamao calculado del rango de hogar y la disponibilidad del hbitat ribereo, estimamos que el rea de estudio tiene la capacidad de sostener 8299 rangos de hogar de cuclillos sin traslapar. Los datos espaciales de este estudio pueden contribuir al entendimiento de los requisitos del rea y hbitat de esta especie para el manejo de recursos y facilitar el rescate si se enlista la especie.
24643723|In the southern Mexican Cueva del Azufre, a cave ecosystem with high concentrations of toxic hydrogen sulfide, one species of hemipteran (Belostoma cf. bakeri) has adopted a unique ecological function in that it acts as one of the top predators in the subterranean food web, preying on the abundant cavefish Poecilia mexicana. To date, several aspects of this predator-prey interaction have been explored, but basic questions related to the ecology of the waterbugs remained unstudied. We tested whether there is evidence for reproduction of waterbugs within the cave, which would indicate a self-sustaining population. Furthermore, we investigated the habitat affinities of different size-classes of waterbugs. We infer that waterbugs reproduce inside the cave despite the toxic properties of the water, as evidenced by the presence of nymphs of all sizes and males carrying developing zygotes. We also found size-dependent differences in use of habitat, and particularly small nymphs occupy different microhabitats than larger individuals. Adult waterbugs and large nymphs were most common at sites with cavefish. Small nymphs were rare at these locations, possibly to avoid cannibalism or exploit different resources in other locations. Furthermore, stable-isotope-analysis indicated that waterbugs likely derive their carbon from a combination of fish, dipteran larvae, and chemoautotropic bacteria. En el sur de Mxico en la Cueva del Azufre, un ecosistema caverncola con altas concentraciones del txico sulfuro de hidrgeno, una especie hemptera (Belostoma cf. bakeri) ha adoptado una funcin ecolgica nica, acta como uno de los depredadores ms altos de la red alimentaria subterrnea, comiendo el abundante pez de la cueva, Poecilia mexicana. Hasta la fecha, varios aspectos de esta interaccin entre el depredador y su presa han sido estudiados, pero preguntas bsicas relacionadas a la ecologa de B. bakeri se mantienen sin estudio. Examinamos si se encuentra evidencia de reproduccin en B. bakeri adentro de la cueva, lo que indicara que la poblacin es autosostenible. Tambin investigamos las afinidades del hbitat de diferentes clases de tamao de B. bakeri. Dedujimos que B. bakeri se reproduce adentro de la cueva a pesar de las propiedades txicas del agua, en base a la presencia de ninfas de todos tamaos y de los machos cargando cigotos en desarrollo. Tambin encontramos diferencias en uso de hbitat segn el tamao corporal, especialmente que las ninfas pequeas ocupan microhbitats diferentes que individuos ms grandes. Adultos y ninfas grandes fueron ms comunes en sitios con peces de la cueva. Las ninfas pequeas casi no se encontraron en estos sitios, posiblemente para evitar el canibalismo o para explotar otro tipo de recursos en otros lugares. Adems, el anlisis de istopos estables indic que B. bakeri probablemente deriva su fuente de carbn al ingerir peces, larva de dpteros, y bacterias quimioautotrficas.
24643724|Previous studies in central Arizona have shown that males of the bee Centris pallida fight for access to emerging receptive females and that larger males have greater mating success. Based on these results, larger-than-average males were predicted to be seen digging for emerging females, particularly if they were observed fighting with other males for control of a digging site. As predicted, larger-than-average males were captured while digging for emerging females. Although large males have consistently experienced an advantage over smaller ones in the competition for mates in a series of studies at this location beginning in the mid-1970s, smaller males continue to be the large majority of the male population. Investigaciones anteriores en Arizona central han demostrado que los machos de la abeja Centris pallida pelean para conseguir hembras receptivas que estn saliendo y que los machos ms grandes tienen mayor xito reproductivo. Basado en estos resultados, se predijo que los machos ms grandes que el promedio seran vistos excavando por hembras saliendo, especialmente si los machos se observaron en peleas con otros por el control del sitio de excavacin. Como se predijo, machos ms grandes que el promedio fueron capturados excavando por hembras saliendo. Aunque los machos grandes han tenido una ventaja sobre los machos ms pequeos en la competencia por hembras en una serie de investigaciones en este lugar desde la mitad de la dcada del 1970, machos ms pequeos siguen siendo la mayor parte de la poblacin masculina.
24643725|Albuneid sand crabs are found in sandy beaches around the world, but little is known about the basic biology of any species in the family. We sampled sand crabs, Lepidopa benedicti, for 2 years at South Padre Island, Texas, at two locations: one developed site near the town, where recreational use is high and one undeveloped site away from the town, where recreational use is lower. We hypothesized that sand crabs would be less abundant and smaller at the developed site than at the undeveloped one. Densities were highest in summer and lowest in winter but did not differ between the two sites. There was no difference in size of individuals at the two locations. Females were significantly more common and larger than males. No ovigerous female was discovered at either location over 2 years of sampling. Individuals at South Padre Island are consistently smaller than those recorded from the northern Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic Ocean, suggesting the region might have habitat that is low quality for the species. Los cangrejos de arena Albunidos se encuentran en playas arenosas en todo el mundo, sin embargo se sabe muy poco sobre la biologa bsica de las especies en la familia. Muestreamos cangrejos de arena, Lepidopa benedicti, durante 2 aos en la isla South Padre, estado de Texas, en dos lugares: un sitio desarrollado cerca de la ciudad con uso recreativo alto, y otro sitio no desarrollado alejado de la ciudad con menos uso recreativo. Nuestra hiptesis fue que los cangrejos de arena seran menos abundantes y ms pequeos en el sitio con recreo ms alto comparado con el de recreo bajo. La densidad de los cangrejos de arena fue ms alta en verano y ms baja en invierno, pero no difiri entre los dos sitios. No hubo diferencia en el tamao de los individuos entre los dos sitios. Las hembras fueron significativamente ms comunes y ms grandes que los machos. No se encontr ni una sola hembra ovgera en ningn sitio durante los 2 aos de muestreo. Los individuos en la isla de South Padre son consistentemente ms pequeos que los registrados en en norte del Golfo de Mxico y en el ocano Atlntico, lo que sugiere que la regin podra presentar un hbitat de baja calidad para la especie.
24643726|Oklahoma currently has 29 recognized species of crayfish. We introduce the thirtieth documented species, Cambarus ludovicianus, and use Maxent ecological niche modeling to predict potentially suitable habitat based on known distributions throughout its range. We used the Maxent algorithm with and without points of occurrence in Oklahoma to examine if the niche model predicts suitable habitat in Oklahoma where we found C. ludovicianus. Occurrences in Oklahoma were not predicted present based on the projection of the model using the previously known distribution of the species, except for the location of the Red Slough Wildlife Management Area in southeastern Oklahoma. However, including the new records in the model changes the predicted suitable habitat for the species in Oklahoma, encompassing all new locations and a large portion of eastern Oklahoma. We suggest that eastern Oklahoma and Texas represent the western edge of the range of C. ludovicianus. Further surveys in the field for C. ludovicianus at the limits of its range are required to understand detailed requirements of its habitat. Oklahoma actualmente tiene 29 especies reconocidas de cangrejo de ro. Presentamos la treintava especie documentada, Cambarus ludovicianus, y usamos el modelaje del nicho ecolgico de Maxent para predecir potencial hbitat adecuado basados en la distribucin conocida de la especie en todo su rango. Usamos el Maxent con y sin los sitios de ocurrencia en Oklahoma para examinar si el modelo del nicho predice hbitat adecuado en Oklahoma donde encontramos C. ludovicianus. No se predijeron las ocurrencias de verdad en Oklahoma basados en la proyeccin del modelo usando la distribucin previamente conocida de la especie, excepto por el rea de Red Slough Wildlife Management Area en el sudeste de Oklahoma. Sin embargo, al incluir los nuevos registros al modelo cambia el hbitat adecuado pronosticado para la especie en Oklahoma, abarcando todas las nuevas localidades y una gran porcin del este de Oklahoma. Sugerimos que el este de Oklahoma y Texas representan el lmite occidental de la distribucin de C. ludovicianus. Futuros muestreos de campo para C. ludovicianus en los bordes de su rango son requeridos para entender los requisitos detallados de su hbitat.
24643727|Carcasses of 11 medium-sized species of mammals along two-lane highways in northern Central Valley, California, were counted between 1997 and 2007 to obtain an indirect measure of changes in mammalian populations over time. Over this period, 1.23 mammalian carcasses were recorded per 100 km, lower than that reported in several other parts of North America. Each species was classified as human-sensitive, suburban-adaptable, or human-adapted according to the use of the land in which it was principally located. In contrast to simple predictions that populations of more human-sensitive species would be in decline and human-associated species would be increasing, indices of populations of all species showed little change once volume of traffic had been taken into account. Therefore, populations of most of the common mammals in the study area appear relatively stable at present. Annual fluctuations in populations of one species did not mirror those of other species of mammals suggesting that each species is a poor indicator of changes in populations of the other sympatric species of mammals. Entre 1997 y 2007, se contaron los cadveres de 11 especies de mamferos del tamao mediano atropellados en las carreteras de dos carriles en el norte del Valle Central de California para obtener una medida indirecta de los cambios en las poblaciones de mamferos a travs del tiempo. Dentro de este periodo, se anotaron 1.23 cadveres de mamferos atropellados por 100 km, menos que la cantidad anotada en otras partes de Norteamrica. Se clasific cada especie como sensible a los humanos, adaptada a los suburbios, o adaptada a los humanos, segn el tipo de uso de la tierra en que se encontraba principalmente. En contraste con las predicciones simples que las poblaciones de las especies ms sensibles a los humanos estaran en declive y las especies ms asociadas con los humanos estaran aumentando, los ndices de las poblaciones de todas las especies mostraron pocos cambios una vez que el volumen de trfico se haba tomado en cuenta. Por lo tanto, las poblaciones de la mayora de los mamferos ms comunes en el rea de estudio parecen relativamente estables en la actualidad. Las fluctuaciones anuales de las poblaciones de una especie no siguieron a las de otras especies de mamferos, y esto sugiere que cada especie es un indicador pobre de los cambios en poblaciones de las otras especies simptricas de mamferos.
24643728|Pitfall traps are widely used by researchers to survey a variety of terrestrial taxa. To test a method for improving the results of pitfall traps, we built a Y-shaped drift fence with six pitfall traps on each arm. We improved the pitfall traps by staking four pieces of aluminum flashing around each of the traps to increase their effective area. For experimental purposes, we used the aluminum flashing wings every other day. Traps without flashing caught a total of 395 reptiles and amphibians representing 15 species, and traps with the flashing caught a total of 624 reptiles and amphibians representing 20 species. Trampas de hoyo son ampliamente utilizadas por investigadores para muestrear una variedad de taxa terrestre. Para poner a prueba un mtodo para mejorar los resultados de las trampas de hoyo, construimos una cerca de deriva en forma de Y con seis trampas en cada brazo. Mejoramos las trampas de hoyo al colocar cuatro secciones de lminas de aluminio alrededor de cada trampa para aumentar su rea efectiva. Para el experimento, las alas de aluminio fueron utilizadas cada dos das. Trampas sin las alas capturaron un total de 395 reptiles y anfibios que represent a 15 especies, y las trampas con las alas capturaron un total de 624 reptiles y anfibios que represent a 20 especies.
24643729|Reintroductions are increasingly utilized in conservation, but the experiences and environments to which animals are exposed prior to release can significantly impact the success of such efforts. We investigated differences in the diet of reintroduced juvenile alligator snapping turtles (Macrochelys temminckii) relative to juveniles from a wild population. In addition, we compared the diet of adult female Ouachita map turtles (Graptemys ouachitensis) to reintroduced M. temminckii with whom co-occurrence was recently reestablished and wild juvenile M. temminckii in a river system where the species have enjoyed long-term sympatry. There were differences in diversity and richness of the diet of M. temminckii at the two study sites that could be due to dissimilarity in foraging experience. There was greater overlap in diet of M. temminckii and G. ouachitensis at the site of reintroduction than at the site of long-term sympatry that corresponded to variation in composition of diet. Such a difference could indicate that partitioning of food resources has not taken place at the site of reintroduction to the degree that it has at the site with long-term sympatry. Reintroducciones se utilizan cada vez ms en conservacin pero las experiencias y los entornos a los cuales los animales estn expuestos antes de su liberacin pueden afectar considerablemente el xito de tales esfuerzos. Investigamos diferencias entre la dieta de los juveniles reintroducidos de la tortuga caimn (Macrochelys temminckii) y la de los juveniles de una poblacin salvaje. Adems, comparamos la dieta de las hembras adultas de la tortuga mapa de Ouachita (Graptemys ouachitensis) con la de M. temminckii reintroducida (la coexistencia con la cual ha sido recientemente documentada) y con los juveniles de M. temminckii de una poblacin salvaje en un sistema fluvial donde las dos especies han gozado de sympatra de largo plazo. Hubo diferencias tanto en la diversidad como en la riqueza en la dieta de M. temminckii en los dos sitios de estudio que podran haber sido debidas a la desigualdad en la experiencia del forrajeo. Hubo mayor solapamiento en la dieta de M. temminckii y G. ouachitensis en el sitio de la reintroduccin que en el sitio de simpatra de largo plazo y correspondi con la variacin de la composicin de la dieta. Tal diferencia podra indicar que la divisin de los recursos alimenticios no ha ocurrido en el sitio de la reintroduccin al mismo grado que en el sitio de simpatra de largo plazo.
24643730|Phrynosoma orbiculare is an endemic species of lizards in Mexico and is distributed from the northern part of the country to the central highlands. This species is found in open areas among scrubs, grasses, yuccas, and herbaceous plants. In our study, we performed two multivariate analyses (principal components and discriminant functions) to examine morphological and geographic variation among populations of P. orbiculare at the edge of the southern distribution of the species. Our assessment was to determine the taxonomic status of the subspecies Phrynosoma orbiculare orbiculare, P. o. cortezii, and P. o. boucardi described for this geographic zone. The analyses employed 10 informative diagnostic traits from digitalized images. Our results confirm only two subspecies, P. o. orbiculare and P. o. cortezii, in the study area. In addition, two new localities for the distribution of the species have been included (Nopalillo, Hidalgo, and Amealco, Queretaro). Moreover, the morphometrics of the organisms from new localities revealed that all individuals were positioned in the P. o. cortezii group and that the distribution of this subspecies extends west of the original records. We propose that the two populations reported as P. o. boucardi can be renamed as P. o. cortezii. Phrynosoma orbiculare es una especie de lagartija endmica de Mxico y est distribuida desde el norte del pas hasta el Altiplano Mexicano. Esta especie se encuentra en reas abiertas entre arbustos, pastos, yucas y herbceas. En nuestro estudio se llevaron a cabo dos anlisis multivariados (componentes principales y funciones discriminantes) para examinar la variacin morfolgica y geogrfica entre las poblaciones de P. orbiculare en la regin sur de su distribucin. Nuestro objetivo fue determinar el estado taxonmico de las subspecies P. orbiculare orbiculare, P. o. cortezii y P. o. boucardi descritas para esta zona geogrfica. Para el anlisis se utilizaron 10 caracteres diagnsticos ubicados en imgenes digitalizadas. Nuestros resultados confirman slo dos subespecies, P. o. orbiculare y P. o. cortezii, para el rea de estudio. Adems, se incluyeron dos localidades nuevas para la distribucin de la especie (Nopalillo, Hidalgo y Amealco, Quertaro). El anlisis morfomtrico de los organismos de las nuevas localidades demuestra que todos los individuos se encuentran ubicados en el grupo P. o. cortezii, lo cual sugiere que la distribucin de esta subespecie se extiende hacia el oeste de la distribucin original. Proponemos que las dos poblaciones identificadas como P. o. boucardi podran ser renombradas como P. o. cortezii.
24643731|Museum specimens and literature records were used to determine the historical distribution and native status of redbelly dace in the Arkansas River Basin, Colorado. All specimens examined were southern redbelly dace (Chrosomus erythrogaster) and native status in the Arkansas River Basin was supported, in part, on the basis of a previously undiscovered specimen collected in 1913. Southern redbelly dace were documented in a geographically restricted area from near Canon City, Colorado, downstream to near Pueblo, and all locations were small tributary streams or off-channel ponds. The two remaining wild populations of southern redbelly dace in Colorado, and transplanted populations that originated from now extirpated populations, should be protected. Additional surveys should be conducted to determine if other populations exist in Colorado, which will better inform managers regarding future actions for the conservation of this species. Utilizamos especmenes de museos y registros en la literatura para determinar la distribucin histrica y el estado nativo de la carpa Chrosomus en la cuenca hidrogrfica del ro Arkansas, Colorado. Todos los especmenes que se examinaron fueron de la carpa C. erythrogaster, y su estado nativo en la cuenca del ro Arkansas fue apoyado, en parte, por un espcimen previamente no descubierto, el cual fue colectado en 1913. Documentamos especmenes de C. erythrogaster dentro de una zona geogrfica limitada por las cercanas de Canon City, Colorado, ro abajo hasta las cercanas de Pueblo, y todos provienen de tributarios de arroyos o de estanques fuera del canal del ro. Las dos poblaciones silvestres que quedan de la carpa C. erythrogaster en Colorado, al igual que las poblaciones trasplantadas procedentes de poblaciones que se encuentran extirpadas hoy en da, deben de protegerse. Se deben llevar a cabo muestreos adicionales para determinar si otras poblaciones existen en Colorado, y utilizar esta informacin para establecer medidas de conservacin para esta especie en el futuro.
24643732|Male pallid bats (Antrozous pallidus) from the Purgatoire River Valley of northern Las Animas County, Colorado, were fitted with telemeters and followed to 53 day roosts. A majority of roosts were in cliffs (89%), with fewer in free-standing rocks at the base of cliffs. Temperatures at roosts were moderate (27C) but warmer than ambient temperatures. Roosts in cliffs were slightly warmer than ambient temperatures, while roosts in rocks usually were 5C greater than ambient temperatures. Typically, bats roosted in crevices that faced east or southeast with much solar exposure. Roosts in cliffs were in long, narrow cracks that extended into the face of the rock. The high temperatures recorded at roosts of male pallid bat may be advantageous for regulating body temperature, avoiding costly torpor bouts, or preparing for reproduction. Se les pusieron telmetros a machos de murcilagos desrticos norteos (Antrozous pallidus) del valle del ro Purgatoire en el norte del condado de Las Animas, Colorado, USA, y se les sigui la pista a 53 dormideros diurnos. La mayora de los dormideros se ubicaron en acantilados (89%), con menos en rocas sueltas al pie de los acantilados. La temperatura de los dormideros fue moderada (27C), pero ms caliente que la temperatura ambiental. Los dormideros en los acantilados fueron un poco ms calientes que las temperaturas ambientales, mientras los dormideros en las rocas solan ser 5C ms calientes que la temperatura ambiental. Por lo general, los murcilagos posaron en grietas que daban al este o sureste con mucha exposicin solar. Los dormideros en los acantilados estuvieron en grietas largas y angostas que se extendan hacia adentro de la cara de la roca. Es posible que las temperaturas altas documentadas en los dormideros de los machos del murcilago desrtico sean favorables para la regulacin de la temperatura corporal, para evitar los perodos costosos de sopor o para prepararse para reproducir.
24643733|Larvae of the sawfly Neodiprion edulicolus fed on needles of Pinus edulis and were abundant below 1,850 m in elevation at sites near Sunset Crater, Arizona. Coleosporium needle rust, in contrast, infected P. edulis above 1,850 m in elevation and rarely occurred on the same trees as did N. edulicolus. Larval sawfly transferred to P. edulis above 1,850 m fed less frequently on infected twigs and moved off twigs more quickly when transferred to infected trees. Though the negative interactions involved only a small percentage of larval sawfly and rust fungus during this study, the interaction might become more significant in the future if sawflies spread to higher elevations in response to changes in climate or habitat. Larvas de moscas serra Neodiprion edulicolus se alimentaron de agujas de Pinus edulis y fueron abundantes a una elevacin inferior a 1,850 m en zonas cercanas a Sunset Crater, Arizona, USA. En contraste, la roya de ster Coleosporium infect rboles de P. edulis a elevaciones superiores a 1,850 m y raras veces infect rboles con N. edulicolus. Larvas de moscas serra transferidas a rboles de P. edulis arriba de 1,850 m se alimentaron en menor frecuencia de ramitas infectadas y se apartaron ms rpidamente de las ramitas al transferirse a rboles infectados. A pesar de que durante este estudio las interacciones negativas slo involucraron un pequeo porcentaje de larvas de moscas serra y roya de ster, su interaccin quizs ser ms significativa en el futuro si las moscas serra llegan a extenderse a alturas ms elevadas en respuesta a cambios climticos o de hbitat.
24643734|We assessed predation on a threatened freshwater mussel, Potamilus amphichaenus, in the Sabine River in eastern Texas during the 2011 drought. We examined 79 recently deceased mussels, and 58 of these had signs indicating predation as the cause of death. This evidence and the absence of live specimens suggest that predation during low flow may contribute to the decline of P. amphichaenus. Evaluamos la depredacin de un mejilln amenazado de agua dulce, Potamilus amphichaenus, en el ro Sabine en el este de Texas durante la sequa de 2011. Examinamos un total de 79 mejillones recin muertos y 58 de estos tuvieron marcas indicando que la depredacin fue la causa de la muerte. Esta evidencia y la ausencia de especmenes vivos sugieren que la depredacin durante bajos flujos de agua puede contribuir a la disminucin de P. amphichaenus.
24643735|We assessed the spatial and genetic organization of the island spotted skunk (Spilogale gracilis amphiala) on Santa Cruz Island, California. Home ranges of adults were largely non-overlapping, consistent with expectations for a solitary species. Contrary to expectations, we found no evidence of a matrilineal spatial structure. Relatedness of adult females was not negatively correlated with geographic distance, nor was it positively correlated with overlap of home ranges, possibly because of excessive dispersal caused by exceptionally high densities. We did find evidence of a patrilineal structure at one study site, where relatedness among males was negatively correlated with distance. The explanation for differences between males and females in genetic structure is uncertain, but it may reflect the differential influence of high density on dispersal of males and females. Se evalu la organizacin espacial y gentica del zorrillo moteado (Spilogale gracilis amphiala) en la isla de Santa Cruz, California, USA. Los rangos de hogar de los adultos no fueron por lo general superpuestos, consistente con las expectativas de una especie solitaria. Contrariamente a lo esperado, no se encontr evidencia de una estructura espacial matrilineal. El parentesco entre las hembras adultas no se correlacion negativamente con la distancia geogrfica, ni tampoco se correlacion positivamente con la superposicin de los rangos de hogar, posiblemente debido a la dispersin excesiva causada por densidades excepcionalmente altas. Encontramos evidencia de una estructura patrilineal en un sitio de estudio, donde el parentesco entre machos se correlacion negativamente con la distancia. La explicacin de las diferencias entre machos y hembras en la estructura gentica es incierta, pero puede reflejar la influencia diferencial de alta densidad en la dispersin de machos y hembras.
24643736|In May 2009, we observed two male golden-cheeked warblers (Setophaga chrysoparia) feeding nestlings at the same nest. We determined the first male was the social mate of the female because we observed him closely following her during construction of the nest and the pair had already made a previous nesting attempt that breeding season. The second male was from a neighboring territory. Our observations demonstrate that cooperative breeding is an alternative mating strategy for this species. We hypothesize that this case of cooperative breeding resulted from an extrapair-copulation between the female and the second male during her fertile period. En mayo del 2009, observamos dos machos de Setophaga chrysoparia alimentando a los pichones en el mismo nido. Determinamos que el primer macho fue la pareja social de la hembra porque lo observamos siguiendo de cerca a esta hembra durante la construccin del nido y la pareja ya haba hecho un intento de poner un nido durante esa temporada de reproduccin. El segundo macho fue de un territorio vecino. Nuestras observaciones demuestran que la crianza cooperativa es una estrategia alternativa de apareamiento para esta especie. Suponemos que este caso de crianza cooperativa result de una cpula extra-pareja entre la hembra y el segundo macho durante su perodo frtil.
24643737|The nests of nine Texas seaside sparrows (Ammodramus maritimus sennetti) collected from a mixed mangrove marsh on Mustang Island, Texas, were examined to determine details of the architecture and placement of nests. Nests were somewhat larger than those described for other seaside sparrow subspecies and were found higher off the ground. They were composed of woven dried grass and typically lacked a canopy. Placement of nests within the marsh seemed to be driven by proximity to the appropriate types of nesting materials in sufficient quantities. Los nidos de nueve gorriones costeros (Ammodramus maritimus sennetti) coleccionados de un pantano mezclado de un manglar en Mustang Island, Texas, USA, fueron examinadas para determinar los detalles de su arquitectura y ubicacin. Los nidos fueron algo ms grandes que los descritos para las otras subespecies de gorrin costero y fueron encontrados ms arriba de la tierra. Fueron compuestos de pastos secos tejidos y tpicamente carecieron de un dosel. La ubicacin de los nidos dentro del pantano pareca ser debido a la proximidad a los tipos apropiados de materiales para nidos en suficientes cantidades.
24643738|The known distribution of the army ant Neivamyrmex taxanus in the United States is limited to eight southern and western states. The range of N. texanus is extended to Oklahoma. Neivamyrmex texanus is the known host of only two symbionts. I report for the first time a parasitic phorid fly, Cremersia adunca, and include a brief description of the defensive behavior of the army ants to this aerial parasite. La distribucin conocida de la hormiga Neivamyrmex texanus en los Estados Unidos est limitada a ocho estados en el sur y oeste del pas. La distribucin ya se extiende a Oklahoma. Neivamyrmex texanus es el husped conocido por slo dos simbiontes. Reporto por primera vez la presencia de la mosca frida parastica, Cremersia adunca, e incluyo una pequea descripcin del comportamiento defensivo de las hormigas a este parsito areo.
24643739|While distributions of aquatic insects are fairly well known in the southwestern United States, relatively few surveys have been conducted in northwestern Mexico. We report new collections of species of aquatic Heteroptera in the region, which extend the known range of several species by hundreds of kilometers, including the first record of Graptocorixa emburyi in the United States, and help show that disjunct distributions of other species are more continuous than previously thought. Aunque la distribucin de insectos acuticos en el suroeste de los Estados Unidos es bien conocida, se ha hecho poca investigacin sobre stos en el noroeste de Mxico. Presentamos nuevos registros de especies acuticas de Heteroptera en la regin, lo cual ampla el rango de distribucin de varias especies por cientos de kilmetros, incluyendo el primer registro de Graptocorixa emburyi para los Estados Unidos, y contribuye a llenar huecos grandes de distribucin de otras especies.
24643740|The largespring gambusia (Gambusia geiseri) is a livebearing fish likely endemic to the headwaters of the San Marcos River. This species thrives in cool headwater springs and, as a result of introductions for mosquito control, may now be invasive in many springs throughout Texas. Gambusia geiseri is believed to be outcompeting its endangered congener, G. nobilis, in the San Solomon Spring in western Texas and may be a threat to other endemic, spring-dwelling Gambusia. Thus, it is important to understand its current distribution. Approximately 15 years ago, the distribution of G. geiseri was documented through much of its range; however, many sites where G. geiseri occurs presently were not explored or were previously unknown. Therefore, to update the current distribution of this species in Texas, all sites previously documented, in addition to several other sites where G. geiseri now persists, were revisited. We present updated results for the distribution of G. geiseri in Texas and also provide estimates of the size of the population at each locale. Gambusia geiseri es un pez vivparo presumiblemente endmico de la cabecera del ro San Marcos. Esta especie vive en los manantiales fros del nacimiento del ro, y, como resultado de introducciones para controlar los mosquitos, ahora se puede encontrar como especie invasiva en muchos manantiales a lo largo de Texas. Gambusia geiseri se cree que est compitiendo con xito con su congnere en peligro de extincin, G. nobilis, en el San Solomon Spring en el oeste de Texas y puede ser una amenaza para otras especies de Gambusia endmicas que viven en manantiales. Por eso es importante poner al da su distribucin actual. Hace aproximadamente quince aos, la distribucin de G. geiseri fue documentada en la mayor parte de su rango; sin embargo, muchos sitios en donde G. geiseri ocurre actualmente no fueron explorados o fueron desconocidos. Para poner al da la distribucin de esta especie en Texas, volvimos a visitar todos los sitios previamente documentados, y muestreamos sitios adicionales en donde G. geiseri ocurre. Presentamos resultados al da para la distribucin de G. geiseri en Texas, y tambin proveemos estimaciones del tamao poblacional en cada localidad.
24643741|The dietary breadth of the western diamond-backed rattlesnake (Crotalus atrox) has been well documented; however, the relationship of species of prey and optimum energetic intake (e.g., size) is poorly understood. While lagomorphs have been documented as prey, their regularity in diets of C. atrox has not been examined. During several studies of C. atrox in Arizona, we collected dietary data through direct and indirect observation and analysis of scat. Lagomorphs were regularly included in the diet of adult C. atrox at all sites. Our observations suggest that C. atrox might select prey based on size to benefit from maximum energetic intake per feeding event. La amplitud diettica del crtalo diamante occidental (Crotalus atrox) ha sido bien documentada; pero la relacin de especie de presa y la toma energtica ptima (por ejemplo, el tamao) no es bien comprendido. Mientras lagomorfos han sido documentados como presa, su regularidad en la dieta de C. atrox no ha sido examinada. Durante varios estudios de C. atrox en Arizona, recogimos datos dietticos por observacin directa e indirecta, y por anlisis de heces. Lagomorfos fueron incluidos regularmente en la dieta de adultos de C. atrox en todos los sitios. Nuestras observaciones sugieren que C. atrox quizs seleccione presas basado en el tamao para beneficiar la toma energtica mxima por cada evento de alimentacin.
24643742|Sexual dimorphism in the genus Sceloporus has historically been relatively well studied; however, there is little understanding of how patterns of sexual size dimorphism might vary within species and how that might affect our ability to generalize about the evolution of sexual size-dimorphism in Sceloporus and other organisms. We examined sexual size-dimorphism in a population of Sceloporus spinosus from Guadalczar, San Luis Potos, Mexico. Males (n = 85) and females (n = 63) showed no significant sexual dimorphism in size of the body, head, or legs. In combination with the results of other studies on sexual dimorphism in S. spinosus and closely related species of Sceloporus, our results suggest that there can be variation in sexual size-dimorphism within and among species that can limit the ability to make broad generalizations about the phylogenetic patterns of sexual dimorphism in Sceloporus. Histricamente el dimorfismo sexual en el gnero Sceloporus ha sido relativamente bien estudiado; sin embargo, existe poca comprensin de cmo los patrones del dimorfismo sexual en tamao corporal pueden variar dentro de especies y cmo esto puede afectar nuestra habilidad para generalizar sobre la evolucin del dimorfismo sexual en tamao corporal en Sceloporus, y en otros organismos. Examinamos el dimorfismo sexual en el tamao corporal en una poblacin de Sceloporus spinosus de Guadalczar, San Luis Potos, Mxico. Los machos (n = 85) y las hembras (n = 63) no mostraron dimorfismo sexual significativo en el tamao del cuerpo, tamao de la cabeza, o tamao de las patas. En combinacin con los resultados de otros estudios sobre dimorfismo sexual en S. spinosus y especies de Sceloporus cercanamente relacionadas, nuestros resultados sugieren que puede haber variacin en el dimorfismo sexual del tamao corporal dentro y entre especies, lo que puede limitar la habilidad para hacer generalizaciones amplias sobre los patrones filogenticos del dimorfismo sexual en el gnero Sceloporus.
24643743|Falco columbarius (merlin) was observed attacking and feeding on Tadarida brasiliensis (Mexican free-tailed bat) in downtown Abilene, Texas. The number of bats, time of emergence, the number of attacks by merlin, and success of merlin capturing bats were recorded. This study also documents techniques used by bats to avoid predation. To our knowledge, this study documents the first known predation of Mexican free-tailed bat by merlin and is one of the few that shows sustained predation on Mexican free-tailed bat by any species of bird of prey. Falco columbarius (esmerejn) fue observado atacando y alimentndose de Tadarida brasiliensis (murcilago de cola libre) en el centro de la cuidad de Abilene, Texas. El nmero de murcilagos, la hora de su salida, el nmero de ataques por el esmerejn, y el xito del esmerejn capturando los murcilagos fueron registrados. Este estudio tambin documenta las tcnicas de los murcilagos para evitar la depredacin. Hasta donde sabemos, este estudio documenta la primera depredacin conocida del murcilago de cola libre por el esmerejn y uno de pocos que muestra la depredacin sostenida del murcilago de cola libre por cualquier especie de ave de rapia.
24643744|Bonytail, Gila elegans, in Cibola High Levee Pond, an isolated lower Colorado River backwater, fed more during evening and after dark than during daylight. Fish were omnivorous, and contents of stomachs (n = 72) included amorphous organic matter (materials digested beyond visual identification), aquatic macrophytes, invertebrates (micro-crustaceans, insects, and crayfish), bullfrog, and fish. Proportion of plants decreased while that of invertebrates increased with increased size of fish. Remains of fish were found only in the largest specimens. Asian tapeworm, Bothriocephalus acheilognathi, was in 11% of the sample and represents the first report for this parasite from open waters of the lower Colorado River system. La carpa elegante, Gila elegans, en Cibola High Levee Pond, un remanso aislado en la parte baja del ro Colorado, se aliment ms durante la noche que durante el da. Los peces fueron omnvoros, y el contenido de estmagos (n = 72) incluy materia orgnica amorfa (materiales digeridos ms all de la identificacin visual), macrfitas acuticas, invertebrados (micro-crustceos, insectos y cangrejos de ro), rana toro, y peces. La proporcin de plantas disminuy mientras que la de invertebrados aument al incrementarse el tamao del pez. Restos de peces se encontraron slo en los especmenes ms grandes. El gusano plano Bothriocephalus acheilognathi se encontr en el 11% de la muestra, y representa el primer registro de este parsito en las aguas abiertas de la parte baja del sistema del ro Colorado.
